Abacus (n.) A table or tray strewn with sand, anciently used for drawing, calculating, etc.
Abacus (n.) A calculating table or frame; an instrument for performing arithmetical calculations by balls sliding on wires, or counters in grooves, the lowest line representing units, the second line, tens, etc. It is still employed in China.
Abacus (n.) The uppermost member or division of the capital of a column, immediately under the architrave. See Column.
Abacus (n.) A tablet, panel, or compartment in ornamented or mosaic work.
Abacus (n.) A board, tray, or table, divided into perforated compartments, for holding cups, bottles, or the like; a kind of cupboard, buffet, or sideboard.
Abada (n.) The rhinoceros.
Abaddon (n.) The destroyer, or angel of the bottomless pit; -- the same as Apollyon and Asmodeus.
Abaddon (n.) Hell; the bottomless pit.
Abaft (prep.) Behind; toward the stern from; as, abaft the wheelhouse.
Abaft (adv.) Toward the stern; aft; as, to go abaft.
Abaisance (n.) Obeisance.
Abaiser (n.) Ivory black or animal charcoal.
Abaist (p. p.) Abashed; confounded; discomfited.
Abalienate (v. t.) To transfer the title of from one to another; to alienate.
Abalienate (v. t.) To estrange; to withdraw.
Abalienate (v. t.) To cause alienation of (mind).
Abalienation (n.) The act of abalienating; alienation; estrangement.
Abalone (n.) A univalve mollusk of the genus Haliotis. The shell is lined with mother-of-pearl, and used for ornamental purposes; the sea-ear. Several large species are found on the coast of California, clinging closely to the rocks.
Aband (v. t.) To abandon.
Aband (v. t.) To banish; to expel.
Abandoned (imp. & p. p.) of Abandon
Abandoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Abandon
Abandon (v. t.) To cast or drive out; to banish; to expel; to reject.
Abandon (v. t.) To give up absolutely; to forsake entirely ; to renounce utterly; to relinquish all connection with or concern on; to desert, as a person to whom one owes allegiance or fidelity; to quit; to surrender.
Abandon (v. t.) Reflexively: To give (one's self) up without attempt at self-control; to yield (one's self) unrestrainedly; -- often in a bad sense.
Abandon (v. t.) To relinquish all claim to; -- used when an insured person gives up to underwriters all claim to the property covered by a policy, which may remain after loss or damage by a peril insured against.
Abandon (v.) Abandonment; relinquishment.
Abandon (n.) A complete giving up to natural impulses; freedom from artificial constraint; careless freedom or ease.
Abandoned (a.) Forsaken, deserted.
Abandoned (a.) Self-abandoned, or given up to vice; extremely wicked, or sinning without restraint; irreclaimably wicked ; as, an abandoned villain.
Abandonedly (adv.) Unrestrainedly.
Abandonee (n.) One to whom anything is legally abandoned.
Abandoner (n.) One who abandons.
Abandonment (n.) The act of abandoning, or the state of being abandoned; total desertion; relinquishment.
Abandonment (n.) The relinquishment by the insured to the underwriters of what may remain of the property insured after a loss or damage by a peril insured against.
Abandonment (n.) The relinquishment of a right, claim, or privilege, as to mill site, etc.
Abandonment (n.) The voluntary leaving of a person to whom one is bound by a special relation, as a wife, husband, or child; desertion.
Abandonment (n.) Careless freedom or ease; abandon.
Abandum (n.) Anything forfeited or confiscated.
Abanet (n.) See Abnet.
Abanga (n.) A West Indian palm; also the fruit of this palm, the seeds of which are used as a remedy for diseases of the chest.
Abannation (n.) Alt. of Abannition
Abannition (n.) Banishment.
Abarticulation (n.) Articulation, usually that kind of articulation which admits of free motion in the joint; diarthrosis.
Isuret (n.) An artificial nitrogenous base, isomeric with urea, and forming a white crystalline substance; -- called also isuretine.
It (pron.) The neuter pronoun of the third person, corresponding to the masculine pronoun he and the feminine she, and having the same plural (they, their or theirs, them).
It (pron.) As a substance for any noun of the neuter gender; as, here is the book, take it home.
It (pron.) As a demonstrative, especially at the beginning of a sentence, pointing to that which is about to be stated, named, or mentioned, or referring to that which apparent or well known; as, I saw it was John.
It (pron.) As an indefinite nominative for a impersonal verb; as, it snows; it rains.
It (pron.) As a substitute for such general terms as, the state of affairs, the condition of things, and the like; as, how is it with the sick man?
It (pron.) As an indefinite object after some intransitive verbs, or after a substantive used humorously as a verb; as, to foot it (i. e., to walk).
Itacism (n.) Pronunciation of / (eta) as the modern Greeks pronounce it, that is, like e in the English word be. This was the pronunciation advocated by Reu/hlin and his followers, in opposition to the etacism of Erasmus. See Etacism.
Itacist (n.) One who is in favor of itacism.
Itacolumite (n.) A laminated, granular, siliceous rocks, often occurring in regions where the diamond is found.
Itaconic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C5H6O4, which is obtained as a white crystalline substance by decomposing aconitic and other organic acids.
Itala (n.) An early Latin version of the Scriptures (the Old Testament was translated from the Septuagint, and was also called the Italic version).
Italian (a.) Of or pertaining to Italy, or to its people or language.
Italian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Italy.
Italian (n.) The language used in Italy, or by the Italians.
Italianate (v. t.) To render Italian, or conformable to Italian customs; to Italianize.
Italianate (a.) Italianized; Italianated.
Italianism (n.) A word, phrase, or idiom, peculiar to the Italians; an Italicism.
Italianism (n.) Attachment to, or sympathy for, Italy.
Italianized (imp. & p. p.) of Italianize
Italianizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Italianize
Italianize (v. i.) To play the Italian; to speak Italian.
Italianize (v. i.) To render Italian in any respect; to Italianate.
Italic (a.) Relating to Italy or to its people.
Italic (a.) Applied especially to a kind of type in which the letters do not stand upright, but slope toward the right; -- so called because dedicated to the States of Italy by the inventor, Aldus Manutius, about the year 1500.
Italics (pl. ) of Italic
Italic (n.) An Italic letter, character, or type (see Italic, a., 2.); -- often in the plural; as, the Italics are the author's. Italic letters are used to distinguish words for emphasis, importance, antithesis, etc. Also, collectively, Italic letters.
Italicism (n.) A phrase or idiom peculiar to the Italian language; to Italianism.
Italicism (n.) The use of Italics.
Italicized (imp. & p. p.) of Italicize
Italicizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Italicize
Italicize (v. t. & i.) To print in Italic characters; to underline written letters or words with a single line; as, to Italicize a word; Italicizes too much.
Ita palm () A magnificent species of palm (Mauritia flexuosa), growing near the Orinoco. The natives eat its fruit and buds, drink its sap, and make thread and cord from its fiber.
Itched (imp. & p. p.) of Itch
Itching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Itch
Itch (v. i.) To have an uneasy sensation in the skin, which inclines the person to scratch the part affected.
Itch (v. i.) To have a constant desire or teasing uneasiness; to long for; as, itching ears.
Itch (n.) An eruption of small, isolated, acuminated vesicles, produced by the entrance of a parasitic mite (the Sarcoptes scabei), and attended with itching. It is transmissible by contact.
Itch (n.) Any itching eruption.
Itch (n.) A sensation in the skin occasioned (or resembling that occasioned) by the itch eruption; -- called also scabies, psora, etc.
Itch (n.) A constant irritating desire.
Itchiness (n.) The state of being itchy.
Itchless (a.) Free from itching.
Itchy (a.) Infected with the itch, or with an itching sensation.
-ite () A suffix denoting one of a party, a sympathizer with or adherent of, and the like, and frequently used in ridicule; as, a Millerite; a Benthamite.
-ite () A suffix used in naming minerals; as, chlorite, from its characteristic green color; barite, from its heaviness; graphite, from its use in writing.
-ite () A suffix used to denote the salts formed from those acids whose names end in -ous; as, sulphite, from sulphurous; nitrite, from nitrous acid, etc.
Item (adv.) Also; as an additional article.
Item (n.) An article; a separate particular in an account; as, the items in a bill.
Item (n.) A hint; an innuendo.
Item (n.) A short article in a newspaper; a paragraph; as, an item concerning the weather.
Itemed (imp. & p. p.) of Item
Iteming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Item
Item (v. t.) To make a note or memorandum of.
Itemize (v. t.) To state in items, or by particulars; as, to itemize the cost of a railroad.
Iter (n.) A passage; esp., the passage between the third and fourth ventricles in the brain; the aqueduct of Sylvius.
Iterable (a.) Capable of being iterated or repeated.
Iterance (n.) Iteration.
Iterant (a.) Repeating; iterating; as, an iterant echo.
Iterate (a.) Uttered or done again; repeated.
Iterated (imp. & p. p.) of Iterate
Iterating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Iterate
Iterate (v. t.) To utter or do a second time or many times; to repeat; as, to iterate advice.
Iterate (adv.) By way of iteration.
Iteration (n.) Recital or performance a second time; repetition.
Iterative (a.) Repeating.
Ithyphallic (a.) Lustful; lewd; salacious; indecent; obscene.
Itineracy (n.) The act or practice of itinerating; itinerancy.
Itinerancy (n.) A passing from place to place.
Itinerancy (n.) A discharge of official duty involving frequent change of residence; the custom or practice of discharging official duty in this way; also, a body of persons who thus discharge official duty.
Itinerant (a.) Passing or traveling about a country; going or preaching on a circuit; wandering; not settled; as, an itinerant preacher; an itinerant peddler.
Itinerant (a.) One who travels from place to place, particularly a preacher; one who is unsettled.
Itinerantly (adv.) In an itinerant manner.
Itinerary (a.) Itinerant; traveling; passing from place to place; done on a journey.
Itineraries (pl. ) of Itinerary
Itinerary (a.) An account of travels, or a register of places and distances as a guide to travelers; as, the Itinerary of Antoninus.
Itinerated (imp. & p. p.) of Itinerate
Itinerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Itinerate
Itinerate (v. i.) To wander without a settled habitation; to travel from place or on a circuit, particularly for the purpose of preaching, lecturing, etc.
-itis () A suffix used in medical terms to denote an inflammatory disease of; as, arthritis; bronchitis, phrenitis.
Its () Possessive form of the pronoun it. See It.
Itself (pron.) The neuter reciprocal pronoun of It; as, the thing is good in itself; it stands by itself.
Ittria (n.) See Yttria.
Ittrium (n.) See Yttrium.
Itzibu (n.) A silver coin of Japan, worth about thirty-four cents.
Iulidan (n.) One of the Iulidae, a family of myriapods, of which the genus Iulus is the type. See Iulus.
Iulus (n.) A genus of chilognathous myriapods. The body is long and round, consisting of numerous smooth, equal segments, each of which bears two pairs of short legs. It includes the galleyworms. See Chilognatha.
Ivan Ivanovitch () An ideal personification of the typical Russian or of the Russian people; -- used as "John Bull" is used for the typical Englishman.
I've () Colloquial contraction of I have.
-ive () An adjective suffix signifying relating or belonging to, of the nature of, tending to; as affirmative, active, conclusive, corrective, diminutive.
Ivied (a.) Overgrown with ivy.
Ivoride (n.) A composition resembling ivory in appearance and used as a substitute for it.
Ivories (pl. ) of Ivory
Ivory (n.) The hard, white, opaque, fine-grained substance constituting the tusks of the elephant. It is a variety of dentine, characterized by the minuteness and close arrangement of the tubes, as also by their double flexure. It is used in manufacturing articles of ornament or utility.
Ivory (n.) The tusks themselves of the elephant, etc.
Ivory (n.) Any carving executed in ivory.
Ivory (n.) Teeth; as, to show one's ivories.
Ivory-bill (n.) A large, handsome, North American woodpecker (Campephilus principalis), having a large, sharp, ivory-colored beak. Its general color is glossy black, with white secondaries, and a white dorsal stripe. The male has a large, scarlet crest. It is now rare, and found only in the Gulf States.
Ivorytype (n.) A picture produced by superposing a very light print, rendered translucent by varnish, and tinted upon the back, upon a stronger print, so as to give the effect of a photograph in natural colors; -- called also hellenotype.
Ivies (pl. ) of Ivy
Ivy (n.) A plant of the genus Hedera (H. helix), common in Europe. Its leaves are evergreen, dark, smooth, shining, and mostly five-pointed; the flowers yellowish and small; the berries black or yellow. The stem clings to walls and trees by rootlike fibers.
Ivy-mantled (a.) Covered with ivy.
Iwis (adv.) Indeed; truly. See Ywis.
Ixia (n.) A South African bulbous plant of the Iris family, remarkable for the brilliancy of its flowers.
Ixodes (n.) A genus of parasitic Acarina, which includes various species of ticks. See Tick, the insect.
Ixodian (n.) A tick of the genus Ixodes, or the family Ixodidae.
Ixtle (n.) Alt. of Ixtli
Ixtli (n.) A Mexican name for a variety of Agave rigida, which furnishes a strong coarse fiber; also, the fiber itself, which is called also pita, and Tampico fiber.
Izard (n.) A variety of the chamois found in the Pyrenees.
-ize () A verb suffix signifying to make, to do, to practice; as apologize, baptize, theorize, tyrannize.
Izedi (n.) One of an Oriental religious sect which worships Satan or the Devil.
Izedism (n.) The religion of the Izedis.
Izzard (n.) See Izard.
Izzard (n.) The letter z; -- formerly so called.
J () J is the tenth letter of the English alphabet. It is a later variant form of the Roman letter I, used to express a consonantal sound, that is, originally, the sound of English y in yet. The forms J and I have, until a recent time, been classed together, and they have been used interchangeably.
Jaal goat () A species of wild goat (Capra Nubiana) found in the mountains of Abyssinia, Upper Egypt, and Arabia; -- called also beden, and jaela.
Jab (v. t.) To thrust; to stab; to punch. See Job, v. t.
Jab (n.) A thrust or stab.
Jabbered (imp. & p. p.) of Jabber
Jabbering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jabber
Jabber (v. i.) To talk rapidly, indistinctly, or unintelligibly; to utter gibberish or nonsense; to chatter.
Jabber (v. t.) To utter rapidly or indistinctly; to gabble; as, to jabber French.
Jabber (n.) Rapid or incoherent talk, with indistinct utterance; gibberish.
Jabber (n.) One who jabbers.
Jabberingly (adv.) In a jabbering manner.
Jabberment (n.) Jabber.
Jabbernowl (n.) Same as Jobbernowl.
Jabiru (n.) One of several large wading birds of the genera Mycteria and Xenorhynchus, allied to the storks in form and habits.
Jaborandi (n.) The native name of a South American rutaceous shrub (Pilocarpus pennatifolius). The leaves are used in medicine as an diaphoretic and sialogogue.
Jaborine (n.) An alkaloid found in jaborandi leaves, from which it is extracted as a white amorphous substance. In its action it resembles atropine.
Jabot (n.) Originally, a kind of ruffle worn by men on the bosom of the shirt.
Jabot (n.) An arrangement of lace or tulle, looped ornamentally, and worn by women on the front of the dress.
Jacamar (n.) Any one of numerous species of tropical American birds of the genus Galbula and allied genera. They are allied to the kingfishers, but climb on tree trunks like nuthatches, and feed upon insects. Their colors are often brilliant.
Jacana (n.) Any of several wading birds belonging to the genus Jacana and several allied genera, all of which have spurs on the wings. They are able to run about over floating water weeds by means of their very long, spreading toes. Called also surgeon bird.
Jacaranda (n.) The native Brazilian name for certain leguminous trees, which produce the beautiful woods called king wood, tiger wood, and violet wood.
Jacaranda (n.) A genus of bignoniaceous Brazilian trees with showy trumpet-shaped flowers.
Jacare (n.) A cayman. See Yacare.
Jacchus (n.) The common marmoset (Hapale vulgaris). Formerly, the name was also applied to other species of the same genus.
Jacconet (n.) See Jaconet.
Jacent (a.) Lying at length; as, the jacent posture.
Jacinth (n.) See Hyacinth.
Jack (n.) A large tree, the Artocarpus integrifolia, common in the East Indies, closely allied to the breadfruit, from which it differs in having its leaves entire. The fruit is of great size, weighing from thirty to forty pounds, and through its soft fibrous matter are scattered the seeds, which are roasted and eaten. The wood is of a yellow color, fine grain, and rather heavy, and is much used in cabinetwork. It is also used for dyeing a brilliant yellow.
Jack (n.) A familiar nickname of, or substitute for, John.
Jack (n.) An impertinent or silly fellow; a simpleton; a boor; a clown; also, a servant; a rustic.
Jack (n.) A popular colloquial name for a sailor; -- called also Jack tar, and Jack afloat.
Jack (n.) A mechanical contrivance, an auxiliary machine, or a subordinate part of a machine, rendering convenient service, and often supplying the place of a boy or attendant who was commonly called Jack
Jack (n.) A device to pull off boots.
Jack (n.) A sawhorse or sawbuck.
Jack (n.) A machine or contrivance for turning a spit; a smoke jack, or kitchen jack.
Jack (n.) A wooden wedge for separating rocks rent by blasting.
Jack (n.) A lever for depressing the sinkers which push the loops down on the needles.
Jack (n.) A grating to separate and guide the threads; a heck box.
Jack (n.) A machine for twisting the sliver as it leaves the carding machine.
Jack (n.) A compact, portable machine for planing metal.
Jack (n.) A machine for slicking or pebbling leather.
Jack (n.) A system of gearing driven by a horse power, for multiplying speed.
Jack (n.) A hood or other device placed over a chimney or vent pipe, to prevent a back draught.
Jack (n.) In the harpsichord, an intermediate piece communicating the action of the key to the quill; -- called also hopper.
Jack (n.) In hunting, the pan or frame holding the fuel of the torch used to attract game at night; also, the light itself.
Jack (n.) A portable machine variously constructed, for exerting great pressure, or lifting or moving a heavy body through a small distance. It consists of a lever, screw, rack and pinion, hydraulic press, or any simple combination of mechanical powers, working in a compact pedestal or support and operated by a lever, crank, capstan bar, etc. The name is often given to a jackscrew, which is a kind of jack.
Jack (n.) The small bowl used as a mark in the game of bowls.
Jack (n.) The male of certain animals, as of the ass.
Jack (n.) A young pike; a pickerel.
Jack (n.) The jurel.
Jack (n.) A large, California rock fish (Sebastodes paucispinus); -- called also boccaccio, and merou.
Jack (n.) The wall-eyed pike.
Jack (n.) A drinking measure holding half a pint; also, one holding a quarter of a pint.
Jack (n.) A flag, containing only the union, without the fly, usually hoisted on a jack staff at the bowsprit cap; -- called also union jack. The American jack is a small blue flag, with a star for each State.
Jack (n.) A bar of iron athwart ships at a topgallant masthead, to support a royal mast, and give spread to the royal shrouds; -- called also jack crosstree.
Jack (n.) The knave of a suit of playing cards.
Jack (n.) A coarse and cheap mediaeval coat of defense, esp. one made of leather.
Jack (n.) A pitcher or can of waxed leather; -- called also black jack.
Jack (v. i.) To hunt game at night by means of a jack. See 2d Jack, n., 4, n.
Jack (v. t.) To move or lift, as a house, by means of a jack or jacks. See 2d Jack, n., 5.
Jack-a-dandy (n.) A little dandy; a little, foppish, impertinent fellow.
Jackal (n.) Any one of several species of carnivorous animals inhabiting Africa and Asia, related to the dog and wolf. They are cowardly, nocturnal, and gregarious. They feed largely on carrion, and are noted for their piercing and dismal howling.
Jackal (n.) One who does mean work for another's advantage, as jackals were once thought to kill game which lions appropriated.
Jack-a-lent (n.) A small stuffed puppet to be pelted in Lent; hence, a simple fellow.
Jackanapes (n.) A monkey; an ape.
Jackanapes (n.) A coxcomb; an impertinent or conceited fellow.
Jackass (n.) The male ass; a donkey.
Jackass (n.) A conceited dolt; a perverse blockhead.
Jackdaw (n.) See Daw, n.
Jackeen (n.) A drunken, dissolute fellow.
Jacket (n.) A short upper garment, extending downward to the hips; a short coat without skirts.
Jacket (n.) An outer covering for anything, esp. a covering of some nonconducting material such as wood or felt, used to prevent radiation of heat, as from a steam boiler, cylinder, pipe, etc.
Jacket (n.) In ordnance, a strengthening band surrounding and reenforcing the tube in which the charge is fired.
Jacket (n.) A garment resembling a waistcoat lined with cork, to serve as a life preserver; -- called also cork jacket.
Jacket (v. t.) To put a jacket on; to furnish, as a boiler, with a jacket.
Jacket (v. t.) To thrash; to beat.
Jacketed (a.) Wearing, or furnished with, a jacket.
Jacketing (n.) The material of a jacket; as, nonconducting jacketing.
Jack Ketch () A public executioner, or hangman.
Jackknife (n.) A large, strong clasp knife for the pocket; a pocket knife.
Jackmen (pl. ) of Jackman
Jackman (n.) One wearing a jack; a horse soldier; a retainer. See 3d Jack, n.
Jackman (n.) A cream cheese.
Jack-o'-lantern (n.) See Jack-with-a-lantern, under 2d Jack.
Jackpudding (n.) A merry-andrew; a buffoon.
Jacksaw (n.) The merganser.
Jackscrew (n.) A jack in which a screw is used for lifting, or exerting pressure. See Illust. of 2d Jack, n., 5.
Jackslave (n.) A low servant; a mean fellow.
Jacksmith (n.) A smith who makes jacks. See 2d Jack, 4, c.
Jacksnipe (n.) A small European snipe (Limnocryptes gallinula); -- called also judcock, jedcock, juddock, jed, and half snipe.
Jacksnipe (n.) A small American sandpiper (Tringa maculata); -- called also pectoral sandpiper, and grass snipe.
Jackstay (n.) A rail of wood or iron stretching along a yard of a vessel, to which the sails are fastened.
Jackstone (n.) One of the pebbles or pieces used in the game of jackstones.
Jackstone (n.) A game played with five small stones or pieces of metal. See 6th Chuck.
Jackstraw (n.) An effigy stuffed with straw; a scarecrow; hence, a man without property or influence.
Jackstraw (n.) One of a set of straws of strips of ivory, bone, wood, etc., for playing a child's game, the jackstraws being thrown confusedly together on a table, to be gathered up singly by a hooked instrument, without touching or disturbing the rest of the pile. See Spilikin.
Jackwood (n.) Wood of the jack (Artocarpus integrifolia), used in cabinetwork.
Jacob (n.) A Hebrew patriarch (son of Isaac, and ancestor of the Jews), who in a vision saw a ladder reaching up to heaven (Gen. xxviii. 12); -- also called Israel.
Jacobaean lily () A bulbous plant (Amaryllis, / Sprekelia, formosissima) from Mexico. It bears a single, large, deep, red, lilylike flower.
Jacobean (a.) Alt. of Jacobian
Jacobian (a.) Of or pertaining to a style of architecture and decoration in the time of James the First, of England.
Jacobin (n.) A Dominican friar; -- so named because, before the French Revolution, that order had a convent in the Rue St. Jacques, Paris.
Jacobin (n.) One of a society of violent agitators in France, during the revolution of 1789, who held secret meetings in the Jacobin convent in the Rue St. Jacques, Paris, and concerted measures to control the proceedings of the National Assembly. Hence: A plotter against an existing government; a turbulent demagogue.
Jacobin (n.) A fancy pigeon, in which the feathers of the neck form a hood, -- whence the name. The wings and tail are long, and the beak moderately short.
Jacobin (a.) Same as Jacobinic.
Jacobine (n.) A Jacobin.
Jacobinic (a.) Alt. of Jacobinical
Jacobinical (a.) Of or pertaining to the Jacobins of France; revolutionary; of the nature of, or characterized by, Jacobinism.
Jacobinism (n.) The principles of the Jacobins; violent and factious opposition to legitimate government.
Jacobinized (imp. & p. p.) of Jacobinize
Jacobinizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jacobinize
Jacobinize (v. t.) To taint with, or convert to, Jacobinism.
Jacobite (n.) A partisan or adherent of James the Second, after his abdication, or of his descendants, an opposer of the revolution in 1688 in favor of William and Mary.
Jacobite (n.) One of the sect of Syrian Monophysites. The sect is named after Jacob Baradaeus, its leader in the sixth century.
Jacobite (a.) Of or pertaining to the Jacobites.
Jacobitic (a.) Alt. of Jacobitical
Jacobitical (a.) Of or pertaining to the Jacobites; characterized by Jacobitism.
Jacobitism (n.) The principles of the Jacobites.
Jacobuses (pl. ) of Jacobus
Jacobus (n.) An English gold coin, of the value of twenty-five shillings sterling, struck in the reign of James I.
Jaconet (n.) A thin cotton fabric, between and muslin, used for dresses, neckcloths, etc.
Jacquard (a.) Pertaining to, or invented by, Jacquard, a French mechanician, who died in 1834.
Jacqueminot (n.) A half-hardy, deep crimson rose of the remontant class; -- so named after General Jacqueminot, of France.
Jacquerie (n.) The name given to a revolt of French peasants against the nobles in 1358, the leader assuming the contemptuous title, Jacques Bonhomme, given by the nobles to the peasantry. Hence, any revolt of peasants.
Jactancy (n.) A boasting; a bragging.
Jactation (n.) A throwing or tossing of the body; a shaking or agitation.
Jactitation (n.) Vain boasting or assertions repeated to the prejudice of another's right; false claim.
Jactitation (n.) A frequent tossing or moving of the body; restlessness, as in delirium.
Jaculable (a.) Fit for throwing.
Jaculated (imp. & p. p.) of Jaculate
Jaculating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jaculate
Jaculate (v. t.) To throw or cast, as a dart; to throw out; to emit.
Jaculation (n.) The act of tossing, throwing, or hurling, as spears.
Jaculator () One who throws or casts.
Jaculator () The archer fish (Toxotes jaculator).
Jaculatory (a.) Darting or throwing out suddenly; also, suddenly thrown out; uttered in short sentences; ejaculatory; as, jaculatory prayers.
Jadding (n.) See Holing.
Jade (n.) A stone, commonly of a pale to dark green color but sometimes whitish. It is very hard and compact, capable of fine polish, and is used for ornamental purposes and for implements, esp. in Eastern countries and among many early peoples.
Jade (n.) A mean or tired horse; a worthless nag.
Jade (n.) A disreputable or vicious woman; a wench; a quean; also, sometimes, a worthless man.
Jade (n.) A young woman; -- generally so called in irony or slight contempt.
Jaded (imp. & p. p.) of Jade
Jading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jade
Jade (v. t.) To treat like a jade; to spurn.
Jade (v. t.) To make ridiculous and contemptible.
Jade (v. t.) To exhaust by overdriving or long-continued labor of any kind; to tire or wear out by severe or tedious tasks; to harass.
Jade (v. i.) To become weary; to lose spirit.
Jadeite (n.) See Jade, the stone.
Jadery (n.) The tricks of a jade.
Jadish (a.) Vicious; ill-tempered; resembling a jade; -- applied to a horse.
Jadish (a.) Unchaste; -- applied to a woman.
Jaeger (n.) See Jager.
Jag (n.) A notch; a cleft; a barb; a ragged or sharp protuberance; a denticulation.
Jag (n.) A part broken off; a fragment.
Jag (n.) A cleft or division.
Jagged (imp. & p. p.) of Jag
Jagging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jag
Jag (v. t.) To cut into notches or teeth like those of a saw; to notch.
Jag (n.) A small load, as of hay or grain in the straw, or of ore.
Jag (v. t.) To carry, as a load; as, to jag hay, etc.
Jaganatha (n.) Alt. of Jaganatha
Jaganatha (n.) See Juggernaut.
Jager (n.) A sharpshooter. See Yager.
Jager (n.) Any species of gull of the genus Stercorarius. Three species occur on the Atlantic coast. The jagers pursue other species of gulls and force them to disgorge their prey. The two middle tail feathers are usually decidedly longer than the rest. Called also boatswain, and marline-spike bird. The name is also applied to the skua, or Arctic gull (Megalestris skua).
Jagg (v. t. & n.) See Jag.
Jagged (a.) Having jags; having rough, sharp notches, protuberances, or teeth; cleft; laciniate; divided; as, jagged rocks.
Jagger (n.) One who carries about a small load; a peddler. See 2d Jag.
Jagger (n.) One who, or that which, jags; specifically: (a) jagging iron used for crimping pies, cakes, etc. (b) A toothed chisel. See Jag, v. t.
Jaggery (n.) Raw palm sugar, made in the East Indies by evaporating the fresh juice of several kinds of palm trees, but specifically that of the palmyra (Borassus flabelliformis).
Jaggy (a.) Having jags; set with teeth; notched; uneven; as, jaggy teeth.
Jaghir (n.) A village or district the government and revenues of which are assigned to some person, usually in consideration of some service to be rendered, esp. the maintenance of troops.
Jaghirdar (n.) The holder of a jaghir.
Jagua palm () A great Brazilian palm (Maximiliana regia), having immense spathes which are used for baskets and tubs.
Jaguar (n.) A large and powerful feline animal (Felis onca), ranging from Texas and Mexico to Patagonia. It is usually brownish yellow, with large, dark, somewhat angular rings, each generally inclosing one or two dark spots. It is chiefly arboreal in its habits. Called also the American tiger.
Jaguarondi (n.) A South American wild cat (Felis jaguarondi), having a long, slim body and very short legs. Its color is grayish brown, varied with a blackish hue. It is arboreal in its habits and feeds mostly on birds.
Jah (n.) Jehovah.
Jail (n.) A kind of prison; a building for the confinement of persons held in lawful custody, especially for minor offenses or with reference to some future judicial proceeding.
Jail (v. t.) To imprison.
Jailer (n.) The keeper of a jail or prison.
Jain (n.) Alt. of Jaina
Jaina (n.) One of a numerous sect in British India, holding the tenets of Jainism.
Jainism (n.) The heterodox Hindoo religion, of which the most striking features are the exaltation of saints or holy mortals, called jins, above the ordinary Hindoo gods, and the denial of the divine origin and infallibility of the Vedas. It is intermediate between Brahmanism and Buddhism, having some things in common with each.
Jairou (n.) The ahu or Asiatic gazelle.
Jak (n.) see Ils Jack.
Jakes (n.) A privy.
Jakie (n.) A South American striped frog (Pseudis paradoxa), remarkable for having a tadpole larger than the adult, and hence called also paradoxical frog.
Jako (n.) An African parrot (Psittacus erithacus), very commonly kept as a cage bird; -- called also gray parrot.
Jakwood (n.) See Jackwood.
Jalap (n.) The tubers of the Mexican plant Ipomoea purga (or Exogonium purga), a climber much like the morning-glory. The abstract, extract, and powder, prepared from the tubers, are well known purgative medicines. Other species of Ipomoea yield several inferior kinds of jalap, as the I. Orizabensis, and I. tuberosa.
Jalapic (a.) Of or pertaining to jalap.
Jalapin (n.) A glucoside found in the stems of the jalap plant and scammony. It is a strong purgative.
Jalons (n. pl.) Long poles, topped with wisps of straw, used as landmarks and signals.
Jalousie (n.) A Venetian or slatted inside window blind.
Jalousied (a.) Furnished with jalousies; as, jalousied porches.
Jam (n.) A kind of frock for children.
Jam (n.) See Jamb.
Jammed (imp. & p. p.) of Jam
Jamming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jam
Jam (v. t.) To press into a close or tight position; to crowd; to squeeze; to wedge in.
Jam (v. t.) To crush or bruise; as, to jam a finger in the crack of a door.
Jam (v. t.) To bring (a vessel) so close to the wind that half her upper sails are laid aback.
Jam (n.) A mass of people or objects crowded together; also, the pressure from a crowd; a crush; as, a jam in a street; a jam of logs in a river.
Jam (n.) An injury caused by jamming.
Jam (n.) A preserve of fruit boiled with sugar and water; as, raspberry jam; currant jam; grape jam.
Jamacina (n.) Jamaicine.
Jamadar (n.) Same as Jemidar.
Jamaica (n.) One of the West India is islands.
Jamaican (a.) Of or pertaining to Jamaica.
Jamaican (n.) A native or inhabitant of Jamaica.
Jamaicine (n.) An alkaloid said to be contained in the bark of Geoffroya inermis, a leguminous tree growing in Jamaica and Surinam; -- called also jamacina.
Jamb (n.) The vertical side of any opening, as a door or fireplace; hence, less properly, any narrow vertical surface of wall, as the of a chimney-breast or of a pier, as distinguished from its face.
Jamb (n.) Any thick mass of rock which prevents miners from following the lode or vein.
Jamb (v. t.) See Jam, v. t.
Jambee (n.) A fashionable cane.
Jambes (n.) Alt. of Jambeux
Jambeux (n.) In the Middle Ages, armor for the legs below the knees.
Jambolana (n.) A myrtaceous tree of the West Indies and tropical America (Calyptranthes Jambolana), with astringent bark, used for dyeing. It bears an edible fruit.
Jamdani (n.) A silk fabric, with a woven pattern of sprigs of flowers.
Jamesonite (n.) A steel-gray mineral, of metallic luster, commonly fibrous massive. It is a sulphide of antimony and lead, with a little iron.
James's powder () Antimonial powder, first prepared by Dr. James, ar English physician; -- called also fever powder.
Jamestown weed () The poisonous thorn apple or stramonium (Datura stramonium), a rank weed early noticed at Jamestown, Virginia. See Datura.
Jan (n.) One of intermediate order between angels and men.
Jane (n.) A coin of Genoa; any small coin.
Jane (n.) A kind of twilled cotton cloth. See Jean.
Jane-of-apes (n.) A silly, pert girl; -- corresponding to jackanapes.
Jangled (imp. & p. p.) of Jangle
Jangling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jangle
Jangle (v. i.) To sound harshly or discordantly, as bells out of tune.
Jangle (v. i.) To talk idly; to prate; to babble; to chatter; to gossip.
Jangle (v. i.) To quarrel in words; to altercate; to wrangle.
Jangle (v. t.) To cause to sound harshly or inharmoniously; to produce discordant sounds with.
Jangle (n.) Idle talk; prate; chatter; babble.
Jangle (n.) Discordant sound; wrangling.
Jangler (n.) An idle talker; a babbler; a prater.
Jangler (n.) A wrangling, noisy fellow.
Jangleress (n.) A female prater or babbler.
Janglery (n.) Jangling.
Jangling (a.) Producing discordant sounds.
Jangling (n.) Idle babbling; vain disputation.
Jangling (n.) Wrangling; altercation.
Janissary (n.) See Janizary.
Janitor (n.) A door-keeper; a porter; one who has the care of a public building, or a building occupied for offices, suites of rooms, etc.
Janitress (n.) Alt. of Janitrix
Janitrix (n.) A female janitor.
Janizar (n.) A janizary.
Janizarian (a.) Of or pertaining to the janizaries, or their government.
Janizaries (pl. ) of Janizary
Janizary (n.) A soldier of a privileged military class, which formed the nucleus of the Turkish infantry, but was suppressed in 1826.
Janker (n.) A long pole on two wheels, used in hauling logs.
Jansenism (n.) The doctrine of Jansen regarding free will and divine grace.
Jansenist (n.) A follower of Cornelius Jansen, a Roman Catholic bishop of Ypres, in Flanders, in the 17th century, who taught certain doctrines denying free will and the possibility of resisting divine grace.
Jant (v. i.) See Jaunt.
Janthina (n.) See Ianthina.
Jantily (adv.) See Jauntily.
Jantiness (n.) See Jauntiness.
Jantu (n.) A machine of great antiquity, used in Bengal for raising water to irrigate land.
Janty (a.) See Jaunty.
January (n.) The first month of the year, containing thirty-one days.
Janus (n.) A Latin deity represented with two faces looking in opposite directions. Numa is said to have dedicated to Janus the covered passage at Rome, near the Forum, which is usually called the Temple of Janus. This passage was open in war and closed in peace.
Janus-faced (a.) Double-faced; deceitful.
Janus-headed (a.) Double-headed.
Japan (n.) Work varnished and figured in the Japanese manner; also, the varnish or lacquer used in japanning.
Japan (a.) Of or pertaining to Japan, or to the lacquered work of that country; as, Japan ware.
Japanned (imp. & p. p.) of Japan
Japanning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Japan
Japan (v. t.) To cover with a coat of hard, brilliant varnish, in the manner of the Japanese; to lacquer.
Japan (v. t.) To give a glossy black to, as shoes.
Japanese (a.) Of or pertaining to Japan, or its inhabitants.
Japanese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or inhabitant of Japan; collectively, the people of Japan.
Japanese (n. sing. & pl.) The language of the people of Japan.
Japanned (a.) Treated, or coated, with varnish in the Japanese manner.
Japanner (n.) One who varnishes in the manner of the Japanese, or one skilled in the art.
Japanner (n.) A bootblack.
Japanning (n.) The art or act of varnishing in the Japanese manner.
Japannish (a.) After the manner of the Japanese; resembling japanned articles.
Jape (v. i.) To jest; to play tricks; to jeer.
Jape (v. t.) To mock; to trick.
Japer (n.) A jester; a buffoon.
Japery (n.) Jesting; buffoonery.
Japhethite (n.) A Japhetite.
Japhetic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, Japheth, one of the sons of Noah; as, Japhetic nations, the nations of Europe and Northern Asia; Japhetic languages.
Japhetite (n.) A descendant of Japheth.
Japonica (n.) A species of Camellia (Camellia Japonica), a native of Japan, bearing beautiful red or white flowers. Many other genera have species of the same name.
Jar (n.) A turn. [Only in phrase.]
Jar (n.) A deep, broad-mouthed vessel of earthenware or glass, for holding fruit, preserves, etc., or for ornamental purposes; as, a jar of honey; a rose jar.
Jar (n.) The measure of what is contained in a jar; as, a jar of oil; a jar of preserves.
Jarred (imp. & p. p.) of Jar
jarring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jar
Jar (v. i.) To give forth a rudely quivering or tremulous sound; to sound harshly or discordantly; as, the notes jarred on my ears.
Jar (v. i.) To act in opposition or disagreement; to clash; to interfere; to quarrel; to dispute.
Jar (v. t.) To cause a short, tremulous motion of, to cause to tremble, as by a sudden shock or blow; to shake; to shock; as, to jar the earth; to jar one's faith.
Jar (v. t.) To tick; to beat; to mark or tell off.
Jar (n.) A rattling, tremulous vibration or shock; a shake; a harsh sound; a discord; as, the jar of a train; the jar of harsh sounds.
Jar (n.) Clash of interest or opinions; collision; discord; debate; slight disagreement.
Jar (n.) A regular vibration, as of a pendulum.
Jar (n.) In deep well boring, a device resembling two long chain links, for connecting a percussion drill to the rod or rope which works it, so that the drill is driven down by impact and is jerked loose when jammed.
Jararaca (n.) A poisonous serpent of Brazil (Bothrops jararaca), about eighteen inches long, and of a dusky, brownish color, variegated with red and black spots.
Jarble (v. t.) To wet; to bemire.
Jardiniere (n.) An ornamental stand or receptacle for plants, flowers, etc., used as a piece of decorative furniture in room.
Jards (n.) A callous tumor on the leg of a horse, below the hock.
Jargle (v. i.) To emit a harsh or discordant sound.
Jargon (n.) Confused, unintelligible language; gibberish; hence, an artificial idiom or dialect; cant language; slang.
Jargoned (imp. & p. p.) of Jargon
Jargoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jargon
Jargon (v. i.) To utter jargon; to emit confused or unintelligible sounds; to talk unintelligibly, or in a harsh and noisy manner.
Jargon (n.) A variety of zircon. See Zircon.
Jargonelle (n.) A variety of pear which ripens early.
Jargonic (a.) Of or pertaining to the mineral jargon.
Jargonist (n.) One addicted to jargon; one who uses cant or slang.
Jarl (n.) A chief; an earl; in English history, one of the leaders in the Danish and Norse invasions.
Jarnut (n.) An earthnut.
Jarosite (n.) An ocher-yellow mineral occurring on minute rhombohedral crystals. It is a hydrous sulphate of iron and potash.
Jar-owl (n.) The goatsucker.
Jarrah (n.) The mahoganylike wood of the Australian Eucalyptus marginata. See Eucalyptus.
Jarring (a.) Shaking; disturbing; discordant.
Jarring (n.) A shaking; a tremulous motion; as, the jarring of a steamship, caused by its engines.
Jarring (n.) Discord; a clashing of interests.
Jarringly (adv.) In a jarring or discordant manner.
Jarvey (n.) Alt. of Jarvy
Jarvy (n.) The driver of a hackney coach.
Jarvy (n.) A hackney coach.
Jasey (n.) A wig; -- so called, perhaps, from being made of, or resembling, Jersey yarn.
Jashawk (n.) A young hawk.
Jasmine (n.) A shrubby plant of the genus Jasminum, bearing flowers of a peculiarly fragrant odor. The J. officinale, common in the south of Europe, bears white flowers. The Arabian jasmine is J. Sambac, and, with J. angustifolia, comes from the East Indies. The yellow false jasmine in the Gelseminum sempervirens (see Gelsemium). Several other plants are called jasmine in the West Indies, as species of Calotropis and Faramea.
Jasp (n.) Jasper.
Jaspachate (n.) Agate jasper.
Jasper (n.) An opaque, impure variety of quartz, of red, yellow, and other dull colors, breaking with a smooth surface. It admits of a high polish, and is used for vases, seals, snuff boxes, etc. When the colors are in stripes or bands, it is called striped / banded jasper. The Egyptian pebble is a brownish yellow jasper.
Jasperated (a.) mixed with jasper; containing particles of jasper; as, jasperated agate.
Jasperize (v. t.) To convert into, or make to resemble, jasper.
Jaspery (a.) Of the nature of jasper; mixed with jasper.
Jaspidean (a.) Alt. of Jaspideous
Jaspideous (a.) Consisting of jasper, or containing jasper; jaspery; jasperlike.
Jaspilite (n.) A compact siliceous rock resembling jasper.
Jaspoid (a.) Resembling jasper.
Jasponyx (n.) An onyx, part or all of whose layers consist of jasper.
Jatrophic (a.) Of or pertaining to physic nuts, the seeds of plants of the genus Jatropha.
Jaunce (v. i.) To ride hard; to jounce.
Jaundice (n.) A morbid condition, characterized by yellowness of the eyes, skin, and urine, whiteness of the faeces, constipation, uneasiness in the region of the stomach, loss of appetite, and general languor and lassitude. It is caused usually by obstruction of the biliary passages and consequent damming up, in the liver, of the bile, which is then absorbed into the blood.
Jaundice (v. t.) To affect with jaundice; to color by prejudice or envy; to prejudice.
Jaundiced (a.) Affected with jaundice.
Jaundiced (a.) Prejudiced; envious; as, a jaundiced judgment.
Jaunted (imp. & p. p.) of Jaunt
Jaunting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jaunt
Jaunt (v. i.) To ramble here and there; to stroll; to make an excursion.
Jaunt (v. i.) To ride on a jaunting car.
Jaunt (v. t.) To jolt; to jounce.
Jaunt (n.) A wearisome journey.
Jaunt (n.) A short excursion for pleasure or refreshment; a ramble; a short journey.
Jauntily (adv.) In a jaunty manner.
Jauntiness (n.) The quality of being jaunty.
Jaunty (superl.) Airy; showy; finical; hence, characterized by an affected or fantastical manner.
Java (n.) One of the islands of the Malay Archipelago belonging to the Netherlands.
Java (n.) Java coffee, a kind of coffee brought from Java.
Javanese (a.) Of or pertaining to Java, or to the people of Java.
Javanese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or natives of Java.
Javel (n.) A vagabond.
Javelin (n.) A sort of light spear, to be thrown or cast by thew hand; anciently, a weapon of war used by horsemen and foot soldiers; now used chiefly in hunting the wild boar and other fierce game.
Javelin (v. t.) To pierce with a javelin.
Javelinier (n.) A soldier armed with a javelin.
Jaw (n.) One of the bones, usually bearing teeth, which form the framework of the mouth.
Jaw (n.) Hence, also, the bone itself with the teeth and covering.
Jaw (n.) In the plural, the mouth.
Jaw (n.) Fig.: Anything resembling the jaw of an animal in form or action; esp., pl., the mouth or way of entrance; as, the jaws of a pass; the jaws of darkness; the jaws of death.
Jaw (n.) A notch or opening.
Jaw (n.) A notched or forked part, adapted for holding an object in place; as, the jaw of a railway-car pedestal. See Axle guard.
Jaw (n.) One of a pair of opposing parts which are movable towards or from each other, for grasping or crushing anything between them, as, the jaws of a vise, or the jaws of a stone-crushing machine.
Jaw (n.) The inner end of a boom or gaff, hollowed in a half circle so as to move freely on a mast.
Jaw (n.) Impudent or abusive talk.
Jawed (imp. & p. p.) of Jaw
Jawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jaw
Jaw (v. i.) To scold; to clamor.
Jaw (v. t.) To assail or abuse by scolding.
Jawbone (n.) The bone of either jaw; a maxilla or a mandible.
Jawed (a.) Having jaws; -- chiefly in composition; as, lantern-jawed.
Law-fall (n.) Depression of the jaw; hence, depression of spirits.
Jaw-fallen (a.) Dejected; chopfallen.
Jawfoot (n.) See Maxilliped.
Jawing (n.) Scolding; clamorous or abusive talk.
Jawn (v. i.) See Yawn.
Jawy (a.) Relating to the jaws.
Jay (n.) Any one of the numerous species of birds belonging to Garrulus, Cyanocitta, and allied genera. They are allied to the crows, but are smaller, more graceful in form, often handsomely colored, and usually have a crest.
Jayet (n.) See Jet.
Jayhawker (n.) A name given to a free-booting, unenlisted, armed man or guerrilla.
Jazel (n.) A gem of an azure color.
Jazerant (n.) A coat of defense made of small plates of metal sewed upon linen or the like; also, this kind of armor taken generally; as, a coat of jazerant.
Jealous (a.) Zealous; solicitous; vigilant; anxiously watchful.
Jealous (a.) Apprehensive; anxious; suspiciously watchful.
Jealous (a.) Exacting exclusive devotion; intolerant of rivalry.
Jealous (a.) Disposed to suspect rivalry in matters of interest and affection; apprehensive regarding the motives of possible rivals, or the fidelity of friends; distrustful; having morbid fear of rivalry in love or preference given to another; painfully suspicious of the faithfulness of husband, wife, or lover.
Jealoushood (n.) Jealousy.
Jealously (adv.) In a jealous manner.
Jealousness (n.) State or quality of being jealous.
Jealousies (pl. ) of Jealousy
Jealousy (n.) The quality of being jealous; earnest concern or solicitude; painful apprehension of rivalship in cases nearly affecting one's happiness; painful suspicion of the faithfulness of husband, wife, or lover.
Jeames (n.) A footman; a flunky.
Jean (n.) A twilled cotton cloth.
Jears (n. pl.) See 1st Jeer (b).
Jeat (n.) See Jet.
Jedding ax (n.) A stone mason's tool, having a flat face and a pointed part.
Jee (v. t. & i.) See Gee.
Jeel (n.) A morass; a shallow lake.
Jeer (n.) A gear; a tackle.
Jeer (n.) An assemblage or combination of tackles, for hoisting or lowering the lower yards of a ship.
Jeered (imp. & p. p.) of Jeer
Jeering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jeer
Jeer (v.) To utter sarcastic or scoffing reflections; to speak with mockery or derision; to use taunting language; to scoff; as, to jeer at a speaker.
Jeer (v. t.) To treat with scoffs or derision; to address with jeers; to taunt; to flout; to mock at.
Jeer (n.) A railing remark or reflection; a scoff; a taunt; a biting jest; a flout; a jibe; mockery.
Jeerer (n.) A scoffer; a railer; a mocker.
Jeering (a.) Mocking; scoffing.
Jeering (n.) A mocking utterance.
Jeers (n. pl.) See 1st Jeer (b).
Jeffersonia (n.) An American herb with a pretty, white, solitary blossom, and deeply two-cleft leaves (Jeffersonia diphylla); twinleaf.
Jeffersonian (a.) Pertaining to, or characteristic of, Thomas Jefferson or his policy or political doctrines.
Jeffersonite (n.) A variety of pyroxene of olive-green color passing into brown. It contains zinc.
Jeg (n.) See Jig, 6.
Jehovah (n.) A Scripture name of the Supreme Being, by which he was revealed to the Jews as their covenant God or Sovereign of the theocracy; the "ineffable name" of the Supreme Being, which was not pronounced by the Jews.
Jehovist (n.) One who maintains that the vowel points of the word Jehovah, in Hebrew, are the proper vowels of that word; -- opposed to adonist.
Jehovist (n.) The writer of the passages of the Old Testament, especially those of the Pentateuch, in which the Supreme Being is styled Jehovah. See Elohist.
Jehovistic (a.) Relating to, or containing, Jehovah, as a name of God; -- said of certain parts of the Old Testament, especially of the Pentateuch, in which Jehovah appears as the name of the Deity. See Elohistic.
Jehu (n.) A coachman; a driver; especially, one who drives furiously.
Jejunal (a.) Pertaining to the jejunum.
Jejune (a.) Lacking matter; empty; void of substance.
Jejune (a.) Void of interest; barren; meager; dry; as, a jejune narrative.
Jejunity (n.) The quality of being jejune; jejuneness.
Jejunum (n.) The middle division of the small intestine, between the duodenum and ileum; -- so called because usually found empty after death.
Jelerang (n.) A large, handsome squirrel (Sciurus Javensis), native of Java and Southern Asia; -- called also Java squirrel.
Jell (v. i.) To jelly.
Jellied (a.) Brought to the state or consistence of jelly.
Jellies (pl. ) of Jelly
Jelly (n.) Anything brought to a gelatinous condition; a viscous, translucent substance in a condition between liquid and solid; a stiffened solution of gelatin, gum, or the like.
Jelly (n.) The juice of fruits or meats boiled with sugar to an elastic consistence; as, currant jelly; calf's-foot jelly.
Jellied (imp. & p. p.) of Jelly
Jellying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jelly
Jelly (v. i.) To become jelly; to come to the state or consistency of jelly.
Jellyfish (n.) Any one of the acalephs, esp. one of the larger species, having a jellylike appearance. See Medusa.
Jemidar (n.) The chief or leader of a hand or body of persons; esp., in the native army of India, an officer of a rank corresponding to that of lieutenant in the English army.
Jemlah goat () The jharal.
Jemminess (n.) Spruceness.
Jemmy (a.) Spruce.
Jemmy (n.) A short crowbar. See Jimmy.
Jemmy (n.) A baked sheep's head.
Jeniquen (n.) A Mexican name for the Sisal hemp (Agave rigida, var. Sisalana); also, its fiber.
Jenite (n.) See Yenite.
Jenkins (n.) name of contempt for a flatterer of persons high in social or official life; as, the Jenkins employed by a newspaper.
Jennet (n.) A small Spanish horse; a genet.
Jenneting (n.) A variety of early apple. See Juneating.
Jennies (pl. ) of Jenny
Jenny (n.) A familiar or pet form of the proper name Jane.
Jenny (n.) A familiar name of the European wren.
Jenny (n.) A machine for spinning a number of threads at once, -- used in factories.
Jentling (n.) A fish of the genus Leuciscus; the blue chub of the Danube.
Jeofail (n.) An oversight in pleading, or the acknowledgment of a mistake or oversight.
Jeoparded (imp. & p. p.) of Jeopard
Jeoparding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jeopard
Jeopard (v. t.) To put in jeopardy; to expose to loss or injury; to imperil; to hazard.
Jeoparder (n.) One who puts in jeopardy.
Jeopardized (imp. & p. p.) of Jeopardize
Jeopardizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jeopardize
Jeopardize (v. t.) To expose to loss or injury; to risk; to jeopard.
Jeopardous (a.) Perilous; hazardous.
Jeopardy (n.) Exposure to death, loss, or injury; hazard; danger.
Jeopardy (v. t.) To jeopardize.
Jerboa (n.) Any small jumping rodent of the genus Dipus, esp. D. Aegyptius, which is common in Egypt and the adjacent countries. The jerboas have very long hind legs and a long tail.
Jereed (n.) A blunt javelin used by the people of the Levant, especially in mock fights.
Jeremiad (n.) Alt. of Jeremiade
Jeremiade (n.) A tale of sorrow, disappointment, or complaint; a doleful story; a dolorous tirade; -- generally used satirically.
Jerfalcon (n.) The gyrfalcon.
Jerguer (n.) See Jerquer.
Jerid (n.) Same as Jereed.
Jerk (v. t.) To cut into long slices or strips and dry in the sun; as, jerk beef. See Charqui.
Jerked (imp. & p. p.) of Jerk
Jerking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jerk
Jerk (v. t.) To beat; to strike.
Jerk (v. t.) To give a quick and suddenly arrested thrust, push, pull, or twist, to; to yerk; as, to jerk one with the elbow; to jerk a coat off.
Jerk (v. t.) To throw with a quick and suddenly arrested motion of the hand; as, to jerk a stone.
Jerk (v. i.) To make a sudden motion; to move with a start, or by starts.
Jerk (v. i.) To flout with contempt.
Jerk (n.) A short, sudden pull, thrust, push, twitch, jolt, shake, or similar motion.
Jerk (n.) A sudden start or spring.
Jerker (n.) A beater.
Jerker (n.) One who jerks or moves with a jerk.
Jerker (n.) A North American river chub (Hybopsis biguttatus).
Jerkin (n.) A jacket or short coat; a close waistcoat.
Jerkin (n.) A male gyrfalcon.
Jerking (n.) The act of pulling, pushing, or throwing, with a jerk.
Jerkinhead (n.) The hipped part of a roof which is hipped only for a part of its height, leaving a truncated gable.
Jerky (a.) Moving by jerks and starts; characterized by abrupt transitions; as, a jerky vehicle; a jerky style.
Jermoonal (n.) The Himalayan now partridge.
Jeronymite (n.) One belonging of the mediaeval religious orders called Hermits of St. Jerome.
Jeropigia (n.) See Geropigia.
Jerquer (n.) A customhouse officer who searches ships for unentered goods.
Jerquing (n.) The searching of a ship for unentered goods.
Jerquing (n.) The searching of a ship for unentered goods.
Jerry-built (a.) Built hastily and of bad materials; as, jerry-built houses.
Jerseys (pl. ) of Jersey
Jersey (n.) The finest of wool separated from the rest; combed wool; also, fine yarn of wool.
Jersey (n.) A kind of knitted jacket; hence, in general, a closefitting jacket or upper garment made of an elastic fabric (as stockinet).
Jersey (n.) One of a breed of cattle in the Island of Jersey. Jerseys are noted for the richness of their milk.
Jerusalem (n.) The chief city of Palestine, intimately associated with the glory of the Jewish nation, and the life and death of Jesus Christ.
Jervine (n.) A poisonous alkaloid resembling veratrine, and found with it in white hellebore (Veratrum album); -- called also jervina.
Jesses (pl. ) of Jess
Jess (n.) A short strap of leather or silk secured round the leg of a hawk, to which the leash or line, wrapped round the falconer's hand, was attached when used. See Illust. of Falcon.
Jessamine (n.) Same as Jasmine.
Jessant (a.) Springing up or emerging; -- said of a plant or animal.
Jesse (n.) Any representation or suggestion of the genealogy of Christ, in decorative art
Jesse (n.) A genealogical tree represented in stained glass.
Jesse (n.) A candlestick with many branches, each of which bears the name of some one of the descendants of Jesse; -- called also tree of Jesse.
Jessed (a.) Having jesses on, as a hawk.
Jest (n.) A deed; an action; a gest.
Jest (n.) A mask; a pageant; an interlude.
Jest (n.) Something done or said in order to amuse; a joke; a witticism; a jocose or sportive remark or phrase. See Synonyms under Jest, v. i.
Jest (v. i.) The object of laughter or sport; a laughingstock.
Jested (imp. & p. p.) of Jest
Jesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jest
Jest (v. i.) To take part in a merrymaking; -- especially, to act in a mask or interlude.
Jest (v. i.) To make merriment by words or actions; to joke; to make light of anything.
Jester (n.) A buffoon; a merry-andrew; a court fool.
Jester (n.) A person addicted to jesting, or to indulgence in light and amusing talk.
Jestful (a.) Given to jesting; full of jokes.
Jesting (a.) Sportive; not serious; fit for jests.
Jesting (n.) The act or practice of making jests; joking; pleasantry.
Jestingly (adv.) In a jesting manner.
Jesuit (n.) One of a religious order founded by Ignatius Loyola, and approved in 1540, under the title of The Society of Jesus.
Jesuit (n.) Fig.: A crafty person; an intriguer.
Jesuited (a.) Conforming to the principles of the Jesuits.
Jesuitess (n.) One of an order of nuns established on the principles of the Jesuits, but suppressed by Pope Urban in 1633.
Jesuitic (a.) Alt. of Jesuitical
Jesuitical (a.) Of or pertaining to the Jesuits, or to their principles and methods.
Jesuitical (a.) Designing; cunning; deceitful; crafty; -- an opprobrious use of the word.
Jesuitically (adv.) In a jesuitical manner.
Jesuitism (n.) The principles and practices of the Jesuits.
Jesuitism (n.) Cunning; deceit; deceptive practices to effect a purpose; subtle argument; -- an opprobrious use of the word.
Jesuitocracy (n.) Government by Jesuits; also, the whole body of Jesuits in a country.
Jesuitry (n.) Jesuitism; subtle argument.
Jesus (n.) The Savior; the name of the Son of God as announced by the angel to his parents; the personal name of Our Lord, in distinction from Christ, his official appellation.
Jet (n.) Same as 2d Get.
Jet (n.) A variety of lignite, of a very compact texture and velvet black color, susceptible of a good polish, and often wrought into mourning jewelry, toys, buttons, etc. Formerly called also black amber.
Jet (n.) A shooting forth; a spouting; a spurt; a sudden rush or gush, as of water from a pipe, or of flame from an orifice; also, that which issues in a jet.
Jet (n.) Drift; scope; range, as of an argument.
Jet (n.) The sprue of a type, which is broken from it when the type is cold.
Jetted (imp. & p. p.) of Jet
Jetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jet
Jet (v. i.) To strut; to walk with a lofty or haughty gait; to be insolent; to obtrude.
Jet (v. i.) To jerk; to jolt; to be shaken.
Jet (v. i.) To shoot forward or out; to project; to jut out.
Jet (v. t.) To spout; to emit in a stream or jet.
Jet-black (a.) Black as jet; deep black.
Jets d'eau (pl. ) of Jet d'eau
Jet d'eau () A stream of water spouting from a fountain or pipe (especially from one arranged to throw water upward), in a public place or in a garden, for ornament.
Jeterus (n.) A yellowness of the parts of plants which are normally green; yellows.
Jetsam (n.) Alt. of Jetson
Jetson (n.) Goods which sink when cast into the sea, and remain under water; -- distinguished from flotsam, goods which float, and ligan, goods which are sunk attached to a buoy.
Jetson (n.) Jettison. See Jettison, 1.
Jetteau (n.) See Jet d'eau.
Jettee (n.) See Jetty, n.
Jetter (n.) One who struts; one who bears himself jauntily; a fop.
Jettiness (n.) The state of being jetty; blackness.
Jettison (n.) The throwing overboard of goods from necessity, in order to lighten a vessel in danger of wreck.
Jettison (n.) See Jetsam, 1.
Jetton (n.) A metal counter used in playing cards.
Jetty (a.) Made of jet, or like jet in color.
Jetties (pl. ) of Jetty
Jetty (n.) A part of a building that jets or projects beyond the rest, and overhangs the wall below.
Jetty (n.) A wharf or pier extending from the shore.
Jetty (n.) A structure of wood or stone extended into the sea to influence the current or tide, or to protect a harbor; a mole; as, the Eads system of jetties at the mouth of the Mississippi River.
Jetty (v. i.) To jut out; to project.
Jeu d'esprit () A witticism.
Jew (n.) Originally, one belonging to the tribe or kingdom of Judah; after the return from the Babylonish captivity, any member of the new state; a Hebrew; an Israelite.
Jewbush (n.) A euphorbiaceous shrub of the genus Pedilanthus (P. tithymaloides), found in the West Indies, and possessing powerful emetic and drastic qualities.
Jewel (n.) An ornament of dress usually made of a precious metal, and having enamel or precious stones as a part of its design.
Jewel (n.) A precious stone; a gem.
Jewel (n.) An object regarded with special affection; a precious thing.
Jewel (n.) A bearing for a pivot a pivot in a watch, formed of a crystal or precious stone, as a ruby.
Jeweled (imp. & p. p.) of Jewel
Jewelled () of Jewel
Jeweling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jewel
Jewelling () of Jewel
Jewel (v. t.) To dress, adorn, deck, or supply with jewels, as a dress, a sword hilt, or a watch; to bespangle, as with jewels.
Jeweler (n.) One who makes, or deals in, jewels, precious stones, and similar ornaments.
Jewellery (n.) See Jewelry.
Jewelry (n.) The art or trade of a jeweler.
Jewelry (n.) Jewels, collectively; as, a bride's jewelry.
Jewelweed (n.) See Impatiens.
Jewess (fem.) A Hebrew woman.
Jewfish (n.) A very large serranoid fish (Promicrops itaiara) of Florida and the Gulf of Mexico. It often reaches the weight of five hundred pounds. Its color is olivaceous or yellowish, with numerous brown spots. Called also guasa, and warsaw.
Jewfish (n.) A similar gigantic fish (Stereolepis gigas) of Southern California, valued as a food fish.
Jewfish (n.) The black grouper of Florida and Texas.
Jewfish (n.) A large herringlike fish; the tarpum.
Jewise (n.) Same as Juise.
Jewish (a.) Of or pertaining to the Jews or Hebrews; characteristic of or resembling the Jews or their customs; Israelitish.
Jewry (n.) Judea; also, a district inhabited by Jews; a Jews' quarter.
Jew's-ear (n.) A species of fungus (Hirneola Auricula-Judae, / Auricula), bearing some resemblance to the human ear.
Jew's-harp (n.) An instrument of music, which, when placed between the teeth, gives, by means of a bent metal tongue struck by the finger, a sound which is modulated by the breath; -- called also Jew's-trump.
Jew's-harp (n.) The shackle for joining a chain cable to an anchor.
Jew's-stone (n.) Alt. of Jewstone
Jewstone (n.) A large clavate spine of a fossil sea urchin.
Jezebel (n.) A bold, vicious woman; a termagant.
Jharal (n.) A wild goat (Capra Jemlaica) which inhabits the loftiest mountains of India. It has long, coarse hair, forming a thick mane on its head and neck.
Jib (v. i.) A triangular sail set upon a stay or halyard extending from the foremast or fore-topmast to the bowsprit or the jib boom. Large vessels often carry several jibe; as, inner jib; outer jib; flying jib; etc.
Jib (v. i.) The projecting arm of a crane, from which the load is suspended.
Jib (v. i.) To move restively backward or sidewise, -- said of a horse; to balk.
Jibber (n.) A horse that jibs.
Jibed (imp. & p. p.) of Jibe
Jibing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jibe
Jibe (v. i.) To shift, as the boom of a fore-and-aft sail, from one side of a vessel to the other when the wind is aft or on the quarter. See Gybe.
Jibe (v. i.) To change a ship's course so as to cause a shifting of the boom. See Jibe, v. t., and Gybe.
Jibe (v. t.) To agree; to harmonize.
Jiffy (n.) A moment; an instant; as, I will be ready in a jiffy.
Jig (n.) A light, brisk musical movement.
Jig (n.) A light, humorous piece of writing, esp. in rhyme; a farce in verse; a ballad.
Jig (n.) A piece of sport; a trick; a prank.
Jig (n.) A trolling bait, consisting of a bright spoon and a hook attached.
Jig (n.) A small machine or handy tool
Jig (n.) A contrivance fastened to or inclosing a piece of work, and having hard steel surfaces to guide a tool, as a drill, or to form a shield or templet to work to, as in filing.
Jig (n.) An apparatus or a machine for jigging ore.
Jigged (imp. & p. p.) of Jig
Jigging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jig
Jig (v. t.) To sing to the tune of a jig.
Jig (v. t.) To trick or cheat; to cajole; to delude.
Jig (v. t.) To sort or separate, as ore in a jigger or sieve. See Jigging, n.
Jig (n.) To cut or form, as a piece of metal, in a jigging machine.
Jig (v. i.) To dance a jig; to skip about.
Jigger (n.) A species of flea (Sarcopsylla, / Pulex, penetrans), which burrows beneath the skin. See Chigoe.
Jigger (n. & v.) One who, or that which, jigs; specifically, a miner who sorts or cleans ore by the process of jigging; also, the sieve used in jigging.
Jigger (n. & v.) A horizontal table carrying a revolving mold, on which earthen vessels are shaped by rapid motion; a potter's wheel.
Jigger (n. & v.) A templet or tool by which vessels are shaped on a potter's wheel.
Jigger (n. & v.) A light tackle, consisting of a double and single block and the fall, used for various purposes, as to increase the purchase on a topsail sheet in hauling it home; the watch tackle.
Jigger (n. & v.) A small fishing vessel, rigged like a yawl.
Jigger (n. & v.) A supplementary sail. See Dandy, n., 2 (b).
Jigger (n.) A pendulum rolling machine for slicking or graining leather; same as Jack, 4 (i).
Jigging (n.) The act or using a jig; the act of separating ore with a jigger, or wire-bottomed sieve, which is moved up and down in water.
Jiggish (a.) Resembling, or suitable for, a jig, or lively movement.
Jiggish (a.) Playful; frisky.
Jiggle (v. i.) To wriggle or frisk about; to move awkwardly; to shake up and down.
Jigjog (n.) A jolting motion; a jogging pace.
Jigjog (a.) Having a jolting motion.
Jill (n.) A young woman; a sweetheart. See Gill.
Jill-flirt (n.) A light, giddy, or wanton girl or woman. See Gill-flirt.
Jilt (n.) A woman who capriciously deceives her lover; a coquette; a flirt.
Jilted (imp. & p. p.) of Jilt
Jilting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jilt
Jilt (v. t.) To cast off capriciously or unfeeling, as a lover; to deceive in love.
Jilt (v. i.) To play the jilt; to practice deception in love; to discard lovers capriciously.
Jimcrack (n.) See Gimcrack.
Jim-crow (n.) A machine for bending or straightening rails.
Jim-crow (n.) A planing machine with a reversing tool, to plane both ways.
Jimmies (pl. ) of Jimmy
Jimmy (n.) A short crowbar used by burglars in breaking open doors.
Jimp (a.) Neat; handsome; elegant. See Gimp.
Jimson weed () See Jamestown weed.
Jin (n.) Alt. of Jinn
Jinn (n.) See Jinnee.
Jingal (n.) A small portable piece of ordnance, mounted on a swivel.
Jingle (v. i.) To sound with a fine, sharp, rattling, clinking, or tinkling sound; as, sleigh bells jingle.
Jingle (v. i.) To rhyme or sound with a jingling effect.
Jingled (imp. & p. p.) of Jingle
Jingling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jingle
Jingle (v. t.) To cause to give a sharp metallic sound as a little bell, or as coins shaken together; to tinkle.
Jingle (n.) A rattling, clinking, or tinkling sound, as of little bells or pieces of metal.
Jingle (n.) That which makes a jingling sound, as a rattle.
Jingle (n.) A correspondence of sound in rhymes, especially when the verse has little merit; hence, the verse itself.
Jingler (n.) One who, or that which, jingles.
Jingling (n.) The act or process of producing a jingle; also, the sound itself; a chink.
Jinglingly (adv.) So as to jingle.
Jingoes (pl. ) of Jingo
Jingo (n.) A word used as a jocular oath.
Jingo (n.) A statesman who pursues, or who favors, aggressive, domineering policy in foreign affairs.
Jingoism (n.) The policy of the Jingoes, so called. See Jingo, 2.
Jinn (pl. ) of Jinnee
Jinnee (n.) A genius or demon; one of the fabled genii, good and evil spirits, supposed to be the children of fire, and to have the power of assuming various forms.
Jinny road () An inclined road in a coal mine, on which loaded cars descend by gravity, drawing up empty ones.
Jinrikisha (n.) A small, two-wheeled, hooded vehicle drawn by one more men.
Jippo (n.) A waistcoat or kind of stays for women.
Joes (pl. ) of Jo
Jo (n.) A sweetheart; a darling.
Job (n.) A sudden thrust or stab; a jab.
Job (n.) A piece of chance or occasional work; any definite work undertaken in gross for a fixed price; as, he did the job for a thousand dollars.
Job (n.) A public transaction done for private profit; something performed ostensibly as a part of official duty, but really for private gain; a corrupt official business.
Job (n.) Any affair or event which affects one, whether fortunately or unfortunately.
Job (n.) A situation or opportunity of work; as, he lost his job.
Jobbed (imp. & p. p.) of Job
Jobbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Job
Job (v. t.) To strike or stab with a pointed instrument.
Job (v. t.) To thrust in, as a pointed instrument.
Job (v. t.) To do or cause to be done by separate portions or lots; to sublet (work); as, to job a contract.
Job (v. t.) To buy and sell, as a broker; to purchase of importers or manufacturers for the purpose of selling to retailers; as, to job goods.
Job (v. t.) To hire or let by the job or for a period of service; as, to job a carriage.
Job (v. i.) To do chance work for hire; to work by the piece; to do petty work.
Job (v. i.) To seek private gain under pretense of public service; to turn public matters to private advantage.
Job (v. i.) To carry on the business of a jobber in merchandise or stocks.
Job (n.) The hero of the book of that name in the Old Testament; the typical patient man.
Jobation (n.) A scolding; a hand, tedious reproof.
Jobber (n.) One who works by the job.
Jobber (n.) A dealer in the public stocks or funds; a stockjobber.
Jobber (n.) One who buys goods from importers, wholesalers, or manufacturers, and sells to retailers.
Jobber (n.) One who turns official or public business to private advantage; hence, one who performs low or mercenary work in office, politics, or intrigue.
Jobbernowl (n.) A blockhead.
Jobbery (n.) The act or practice of jobbing.
Jobbery (n.) Underhand management; official corruption; as, municipal jobbery.
Jobbing (a.) Doing chance work or add jobs; as, a jobbing carpenter.
Jobbing (a.) Using opportunities of public service for private gain; as, a jobbing politician.
Jocantry (n.) The act or practice of jesting.
Jockeys (pl. ) of Jockey
Jockey (n.) A professional rider of horses in races.
Jockey (n.) A dealer in horses; a horse trader.
Jockey (n.) A cheat; one given to sharp practice in trade.
Jockeyed (imp. & p. p.) of Jockey
Jockeying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jockey
Jockey (v. t.) " To jostle by riding against one."
Jockey (v. t.) To play the jockey toward; to cheat; to trick; to impose upon in trade; as, to jockey a customer.
Jockey (v. i.) To play or act the jockey; to cheat.
Jockeying (n.) The act or management of one who jockeys; trickery.
Jockeyism (n.) The practice of jockeys.
Jockeyship (n.) The art, character, or position, of a jockey; the personality of a jockey.
Jocose (a.) Given to jokes and jesting; containing a joke, or abounding in jokes; merry; sportive; humorous.
Jocoserious (a.) Mingling mirth and seriousness.
Jocosity (n.) A jocose act or saying; jocoseness.
Jocular (a.) Given to jesting; jocose; as, a jocular person.
Jocular (a.) Sportive; merry.
Jocularity (n.) Jesting; merriment.
Jocularly (adv.) In jest; for sport or mirth; jocosely.
Joculary (a.) Jocular; jocose; sportive.
Joculator (n.) A jester; a joker.
Joculatory (a.) Droll; sportive.
Jocund () Merry; cheerful; gay; airy; lively; sportive.
Jocund (adv.) Merrily; cheerfully.
Jocundity (n.) The state or quality of being jocund; gayety; sportiveness.
Joe (n.) See Johannes.
Joe Miller () A jest book; a stale jest; a worn-out joke.
Joe-Pye weed () A tall composite plant of the genus Eupatorium (E. purpureum), with purplish flowers, and whorled leaves.
Jogged (imp. & p. p.) of Jog
Jogging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jog
Jog (v. t.) To push or shake with the elbow or hand; to jostle; esp., to push or touch, in order to give notice, to excite one's attention, or to warn.
Jog (v. t.) To suggest to; to notify; to remind; to call the attention of; as, to jog the memory.
Jog (v. t.) To cause to jog; to drive at a jog, as a horse. See Jog, v. i.
Jog (v. i.) To move by jogs or small shocks, like those of a slow trot; to move slowly, leisurely, or monotonously; -- usually with on, sometimes with over.
Jog (n.) A slight shake; a shake or push intended to give notice or awaken attention; a push; a jolt.
Jog (n.) A rub; a slight stop; an obstruction; hence, an irregularity in motion of from; a hitch; a break in the direction of a line or the surface of a plane.
Jogger (n.) One who jogs.
Jogging (n.) The act of giving a jog or jogs; traveling at a jog.
Joggled (imp. & p. p.) of Joggle
Joggling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Joggle
Joggle (v. t.) To shake slightly; to push suddenly but slightly, so as to cause to shake or totter; to jostle; to jog.
Joggle (v. t.) To join by means of joggles, so as to prevent sliding apart; sometimes, loosely, to dowel.
Joggle (v. i.) To shake or totter; to slip out of place.
Joggle (n.) A notch or tooth in the joining surface of any piece of building material to prevent slipping; sometimes, but incorrectly, applied to a separate piece fitted into two adjacent stones, or the like.
Johannean (a.) Of or pertaining to John, esp. to the Apostle John or his writings.
Johannes (n.) A Portuguese gold coin of the value of eight dollars, named from the figure of King John which it bears; -- often contracted into joe; as, a joe, or a half joe.
Johannisberger (n.) A fine white wine produced on the estate of Schloss (or Castle) Johannisberg, on the Rhine.
John (n.) A proper name of a man.
Johnadreams (n.) A dreamy, idle fellow.
Johnnies (pl. ) of Johnny
Johnny (n.) A familiar diminutive of John.
Johnny (n.) A sculpin.
Johnnycake (n.) A kind of bread made of the meal of maize (Indian corn), mixed with water or milk, etc., and baked.
Johnsonese (n.) The literary style of Dr. Samuel Johnson, or one formed in imitation of it; an inflated, stilted, or pompous style, affecting classical words.
Johnson grass () A tall perennial grass (Sorghum Halepense), valuable in the Southern and Western States for pasture and hay. The rootstocks are large and juicy and are eagerly sought by swine. Called also Cuba grass, Means grass, Evergreen millet, and Arabian millet.
Johnsonian (a.) Pertaining to or resembling Dr. Johnson or his style; pompous; inflated.
Johnsonianism (n.) A manner of acting or of writing peculiar to, or characteristic of, Dr. Johnson.
John's-wort (n.) See St. John's-wort.
Joined (imp. & p. p.) of Join
Joining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Join
Join (v. t.) To bring together, literally or figuratively; to place in contact; to connect; to couple; to unite; to combine; to associate; to add; to append.
Join (v. t.) To associate one's self to; to be or become connected with; to league one's self with; to unite with; as, to join a party; to join the church.
Join (v. t.) To unite in marriage.
Join (v. t.) To enjoin upon; to command.
Join (v. t.) To accept, or engage in, as a contest; as, to join encounter, battle, issue.
Join (v. i.) To be contiguous, close, or in contact; to come together; to unite; to mingle; to form a union; as, the hones of the skull join; two rivers join.
Join (n.) The line joining two points; the point common to two intersecting lines.
Joinant (a.) Adjoining.
Joinder (v. t.) The act of joining; a putting together; conjunction.
Joinder (v. t.) A joining of parties as plaintiffs or defendants in a suit.
Joinder (v. t.) Acceptance of an issue tendered in law or fact.
Joinder (v. t.) A joining of causes of action or defense in civil suits or criminal prosecutions.
Joiner (n.) One who, or that which, joins.
Joiner (n.) One whose occupation is to construct articles by joining pieces of wood; a mechanic who does the woodwork (as doors, stairs, etc.) necessary for the finishing of buildings.
Joiner (n.) A wood-working machine, for sawing, plaining, mortising, tenoning, grooving, etc.
Joinery (n.) The art, or trade, of a joiner; the work of a joiner.
Joinhand (n.) Writing in which letters are joined in words; -- distinguished from writing in single letters.
Joint (n.) The place or part where two things or parts are joined or united; the union of two or more smooth or even surfaces admitting of a close-fitting or junction; junction as, a joint between two pieces of timber; a joint in a pipe.
Joint (n.) A joining of two things or parts so as to admit of motion; an articulation, whether movable or not; a hinge; as, the knee joint; a node or joint of a stem; a ball and socket joint. See Articulation.
Joint (n.) The part or space included between two joints, knots, nodes, or articulations; as, a joint of cane or of a grass stem; a joint of the leg.
Joint (n.) Any one of the large pieces of meat, as cut into portions by the butcher for roasting.
Joint (n.) A plane of fracture, or divisional plane, of a rock transverse to the stratification.
Joint (n.) The space between the adjacent surfaces of two bodies joined and held together, as by means of cement, mortar, etc.; as, a thin joint.
Joint (n.) The means whereby the meeting surfaces of pieces in a structure are secured together.
Joint (a.) Joined; united; combined; concerted; as joint action.
Joint (a.) Involving the united activity of two or more; done or produced by two or more working together.
Joint (a.) United, joined, or sharing with another or with others; not solitary in interest or action; holding in common with an associate, or with associates; acting together; as, joint heir; joint creditor; joint debtor, etc.
Joint (a.) Shared by, or affecting two or more; held in common; as, joint property; a joint bond.
Jointed (imp. & p. p.) of Joint
Jointing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Joint
Joint (v. t.) To unite by a joint or joints; to fit together; to prepare so as to fit together; as, to joint boards.
Joint (v. t.) To join; to connect; to unite; to combine.
Joint (v. t.) To provide with a joint or joints; to articulate.
Joint (v. t.) To separate the joints; of; to divide at the joint or joints; to disjoint; to cut up into joints, as meat.
Joint (v. i.) To fit as if by joints; to coalesce as joints do; as, the stones joint, neatly.
Jointed (a.) Having joints; articulated; full of nodes; knotty; as, a jointed doll; jointed structure.
Jointer (n.) One who, or that which, joints.
Jointer (n.) A plane for smoothing the surfaces of pieces which are to be accurately joined
Jointer (n.) The longest plane used by a joiner.
Jointer (n.) A long stationary plane, for plaining the edges of barrel staves.
Jointer (n.) A bent piece of iron inserted to strengthen the joints of a wall.
Jointer (n.) A tool for pointing the joints in brickwork.
Joint-fir (n.) A genus (Ephedra) of leafless shrubs, with the stems conspicuously jointed; -- called also shrubby horsetail. There are about thirty species, of which two or three are found from Texas to California.
Jointing (n.) The act or process of making a joint; also, the joints thus produced.
Jointless (a.) Without a joint; rigid; stiff.
Jointly (adv.) In a joint manner; together; unitedly; in concert; not separately.
Jointress (n.) A woman who has a jointure.
Jointure (n.) A joining; a joint.
Jointure (n.) An estate settled on a wife, which she is to enjoy after husband's decease, for her own life at least, in satisfaction of dower.
Jointured (imp. & p. p.) of Jointure
Jointuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jointure
Jointure (v. t.) To settle a jointure upon.
Jointureless (a.) Having no jointure.
Jointuress (n.) See Jointress.
Jointweed (n.) A slender, nearly leafless, American herb (Polygonum articulatum), with jointed spikes of small flowers.
Jointworm (n.) The larva of a small, hymenopterous fly (Eurytoma hordei), which is found in gall-like swellings on the stalks of wheat, usually at or just above the first joint. In some parts of America it does great damage to the crop.
Joist (n.) A piece of timber laid horizontally, or nearly so, to which the planks of the floor, or the laths or furring strips of a ceiling, are nailed; -- called, according to its position or use, binding joist, bridging joist, ceiling joist, trimming joist, etc. See Illust. of Double-framed floor, under Double, a.
Joisted (imp. & p. p.) of Joist
Joisting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Joist
Joist (v. t.) To fit or furnish with joists.
Joke (n.) Something said for the sake of exciting a laugh; something witty or sportive (commonly indicating more of hilarity or humor than jest); a jest; a witticism; as, to crack good-natured jokes.
Joke (n.) Something not said seriously, or not actually meant; something done in sport.
Joked (imp. & p. p.) of Joke
Joking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Joke
Joke (v. t.) To make merry with; to make jokes upon; to rally; to banter; as, to joke a comrade.
Joke (v. i.) To do something for sport, or as a joke; to be merry in words or actions; to jest.
Joker (n.) One who makes jokes or jests.
Joker (n.) See Rest bower, under 2d Bower.
Jokingly (adv.) In a joking way; sportively.
Jole (v. t. & n.) Alt. of Joll
Joll (v. t. & n.) Same as Jowl.
Jolif (a.) Joyful; merry; pleasant; jolly.
Jollification (n.) A merrymaking; noisy festivity.
Jollily (adv.) In a jolly manner.
Jolloment (n.) Jollity.
Jolliness (n.) Jollity; noisy mirth.
Jollity (n.) Noisy mirth; gayety; merriment; festivity; boisterous enjoyment.
Jolly (superl.) Full of life and mirth; jovial; joyous; merry; mirthful.
Jolly (superl.) Expressing mirth, or inspiring it; exciting mirth and gayety.
Jolly (superl.) Of fine appearance; handsome; excellent; lively; agreeable; pleasant.
Jolly-boat (n.) A boat of medium size belonging to a ship.
Jollyhead (n.) Jollity.
Jolted (imp. & p. p.) of Jolt
Jolt (v. i.) To shake with short, abrupt risings and fallings, as a carriage moving on rough ground; as, the coach jolts.
Jolt (v. t.) To cause to shake with a sudden up and down motion, as in a carriage going over rough ground, or on a high-trotting horse; as, the horse jolts the rider; fast driving jolts the carriage and the passengers.
Jolt (n.) A sudden shock or jerk; a jolting motion, as in a carriage moving over rough ground.
Jolter (n.) One who, or that which, jolts.
Jolterhead (n.) Alt. of Jolthead
Jolthead (n.) A dunce; a blockhead.
Joltingly (adv.) In a jolting manner.
Jolty (a.) That jolts; as, a jolty coach.
Jonah (n.) The Hebrew prophet, who was cast overboard as one who endangered the ship; hence, any person whose presence is unpropitious.
Jonesian (a.) Of or pertaining to Jones.
Jongleur (n.) Alt. of Jongler
Jongler (n.) In the Middle Ages, a court attendant or other person who, for hire, recited or sang verses, usually of his own composition. See Troubadour.
Jongler (n.) A juggler; a conjuror. See Juggler.
Jonquil (n.) Alt. of Jonquille
Jonquille (n.) A bulbous plant of the genus Narcissus (N. Jonquilla), allied to the daffodil. It has long, rushlike leaves, and yellow or white fragrant flowers. The root has emetic properties. It is sometimes called the rush-leaved daffodil. See Illust. of Corona.
Joram (n.) See Jorum.
Jordan (n.) Alt. of Jorden
Jorden (n.) A pot or vessel with a large neck, formerly used by physicians and alchemists.
Jorden (n.) A chamber pot.
Jorum (n.) A large drinking vessel; also, its contents.
Joseph (n.) An outer garment worn in the 18th century; esp., a woman's riding habit, buttoned down the front.
Joseph's flower () A composite herb (Tragopogon pratensis), of the same genus as the salsify.
Joso (n.) A small gudgeon.
Joss (n.) A Chinese household divinity; a Chinese idol.
Jossa (interj.) A command to a horse, probably meaning "stand still."
Jostled (imp. & p. p.) of Jostle
Jostling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jostle
Jostle (v. t.) To run against and shake; to push out of the way; to elbow; to hustle; to disturb by crowding; to crowd against.
Jostle (v. i.) To push; to crowd; to hustle.
Jostle (n.) A conflict by collisions; a crowding or bumping together; interference.
Jostlement (n.) Crowding; hustling.
Jot (n.) An iota; a point; a tittle; the smallest particle. Cf. Bit, n.
Jotted (imp. & p. p.) of Jot
Jotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jot
Jot (v. t.) To set down; to make a brief note of; -- usually followed by down.
Jotter (n.) One who jots down memoranda.
Jotter (n.) A memorandum book.
Jougs (n.) An iron collar fastened to a wall or post, formerly used in Scotland as a kind of pillory. [Written also juggs.] See Juke.
Jouissance (n.) Jollity; merriment.
Jouk (v. i.) See Juke.
Joul (v. t.) See Jowl.
Joule (n.) A unit of work which is equal to 107 units of work in the C. G. S. system of units (ergs), and is practically equivalent to the energy expended in one second by an electric current of one ampere in a resistance of one ohm. One joule is approximately equal to 0.738 foot pounds.
Jounced (imp. & p. p.) of Jounce
Jouncing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jounce
Jounce (v. t. & i.) To jolt; to shake, especially by rough riding or by driving over obstructions.
Jounce (n.) A jolt; a shake; a hard trot.
Journal (a.) Daily; diurnal.
Journal (a.) A diary; an account of daily transactions and events.
Journal (a.) A book of accounts, in which is entered a condensed and grouped statement of the daily transactions.
Journal (a.) A daily register of the ship's course and distance, the winds, weather, incidents of the voyage, etc.
Journal (a.) The record of daily proceedings, kept by the clerk.
Journal (a.) A newspaper published daily; by extension, a weekly newspaper or any periodical publication, giving an account of passing events, the proceedings and memoirs of societies, etc.
Journal (a.) That which has occurred in a day; a day's work or travel; a day's journey.
Journal (a.) That portion of a rotating piece, as a shaft, axle, spindle, etc., which turns in a bearing or box. See Illust. of Axle box.
Journalism (n.) The keeping of a journal or diary.
Journalism (n.) The periodical collection and publication of current news; the business of managing, editing, or writing for, journals or newspapers; as, political journalism.
Journalist (n.) One who keeps a journal or diary.
Journalist (n.) The conductor of a public journal, or one whose business it to write for a public journal; an editorial or other professional writer for a periodical.
Journalistic (a.) Pertaining to journals or to journalists; contained in, or characteristic of, the public journals; as journalistic literature or enterprise.
Journalized (imp. & p. p.) of Journalize
Journalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Journalize
Journalize (v. t.) To enter or record in a journal or diary.
Journalize (v. i.) to conduct or contribute to a public journal; to follow the profession of a journalist.
Journeys (pl. ) of Journey
Journey (n.) The travel or work of a day.
Journey (n.) Travel or passage from one place to another; hence, figuratively, a passage through life.
Journeyed (imp. & p. p.) of Journey
Journeying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Journey
Journey (v. i.) To travel from place to place; to go from home to a distance.
Journey (v. t.) To traverse; to travel over or through.
Journey-bated (a.) Worn out with journeying.
Journeyer (n.) One who journeys.
Journeymen (pl. ) of Journeyman
Journeyman (n.) Formerly, a man hired to work by the day; now, commonly, one who has mastered a handicraft or trade; -- distinguished from apprentice and from master workman.
Journeywork (n.) Originally, work done by the day; work done by a journeyman at his trade.
Joust (v. i.) To engage in mock combat on horseback, as two knights in the lists; to tilt.
Joust (v. i.) A tilting match; a mock combat on horseback between two knights in the lists or inclosed field.
Jouster (n.) One who jousts or tilts.
Jove (n.) The chief divinity of the ancient Romans; Jupiter.
Jove (n.) The planet Jupiter.
Jove (n.) The metal tin.
Jovial (a.) Of or pertaining to the god, or the planet, Jupiter.
Jovial (a.) Sunny; serene.
Jovial (a.) Gay; merry; joyous; jolly; mirth-inspiring; hilarious; characterized by mirth or jollity; as, a jovial youth; a jovial company; a jovial poem.
Jovialist (n.) One who lives a jovial life.
Joviality (n.) The quality or state of being jovial.
Jovially (adv.) In a jovial manner; merrily; gayly.
Jovialness (n.) Noisy mirth; joviality.
Jovialty (n.) Joviality.
Jovian (a.) Of or pertaining to Jove, or Jupiter (either the deity or the planet).
Jovicentric (a.) Revolving around the planet Jupiter; appearing as viewed from Jupiter.
Jovinianist (n.) An adherent to the doctrines of Jovinian, a monk of the fourth century, who denied the virginity of Mary, and opposed the asceticism of his time.
Jowl (n.) The cheek; the jaw.
Jowl (v. t.) To throw, dash, or knock.
Jowler (n.) A dog with large jowls, as the beagle.
Jowter (n.) A mounted peddler of fish; -- called also jouster.
Joy (n.) The passion or emotion excited by the acquisition or expectation of good; pleasurable feelings or emotions caused by success, good fortune, and the like, or by a rational prospect of possessing what we love or desire; gladness; exhilaration of spirits; delight.
Joy (n.) That which causes joy or happiness.
Joy (n.) The sign or exhibition of joy; gayety; mirth; merriment; festivity.
Joyed (imp. & p. p.) of Joy
Joying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Joy
Joy (n.) To rejoice; to be glad; to delight; to exult.
Joy (v. t.) To give joy to; to congratulate.
Joy (v. t.) To gladden; to make joyful; to exhilarate.
Joy (v. t.) To enjoy.
Joyace (n.) Enjoyment; gayety; festivity; joyfulness.
Joyancy (n.) Joyance.
Joyful (a.) Full of joy; having or causing joy; very glad; as, a joyful heart.
Joyless (a.) Not having joy; not causing joy; unenjoyable.
Joyous (a.) Glad; gay; merry; joyful; also, affording or inspiring joy; with of before the word or words expressing the cause of joy.
Joysome (a.) Causing joyfulness.
Jub (n.) A vessel for holding ale or wine; a jug.
Jubae (pl. ) of Juba
Juba (n.) The mane of an animal.
Juba (n.) A loose panicle, the axis of which falls to pieces, as in certain grasses.
Jubate (a.) Fringed with long, pendent hair.
Jube (n.) chancel screen or rood screen.
Jube (n.) gallery above such a screen, from which certain parts of the service were formerly read.
Jubilant (a.) Uttering songs of triumph; shouting with joy; triumphant; exulting.
Jubilantly (adv.) In a jubilant manner.
Jubilar (a.) Pertaining to, or having the character of, a jubilee.
Jubilate (n.) The third Sunday after Easter; -- so called because the introit is the 66th Psalm, which, in the Latin version, begins with the words, "Jubilate Deo."
Jubilate (n.) A name of the 100th Psalm; -- so called from its opening word in the Latin version.
Jubilate (v. i.) To exult; to rejoice.
Jubilation (n.) A triumphant shouting; rejoicing; exultation.
Jubilee (n.) Every fiftieth year, being the year following the completion of each seventh sabbath of years, at which time all the slaves of Hebrew blood were liberated, and all lands which had been alienated during the whole period reverted to their former owners.
Jubilee (n.) The joyful commemoration held on the fiftieth anniversary of any event; as, the jubilee of Queen Victoria's reign; the jubilee of the American Board of Missions.
Jubilee (n.) A church solemnity or ceremony celebrated at Rome, at stated intervals, originally of one hundred years, but latterly of twenty-five; a plenary and extraordinary indulgence grated by the sovereign pontiff to the universal church. One invariable condition of granting this indulgence is the confession of sins and receiving of the eucharist.
Jubilee (n.) A season of general joy.
Jubilee (n.) A state of joy or exultation.
Jucundity (n.) Pleasantness; agreeableness. See Jocundity.
Judahite (n.) One of the tribe of Judah; a member of the kingdom of Judah; a Jew.
Judaic (a.) Alt. of Judaical
Judaical (a.) Of or pertaining to the Jews.
Judaically (adv.) After the Jewish manner.
Judaism (n.) The religious doctrines and rites of the Jews as enjoined in the laws of Moses.
Judaism (n.) Conformity to the Jewish rites and ceremonies.
Judaist (n.) One who believes and practices Judaism.
Judaistic (a.) Of or pertaining to Judaism.
Judaization (n.) The act of Judaizing; a conforming to the Jewish religion or ritual.
Judaized (imp. & p. p.) of Judaize
Judaizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Judaize
Judaize (v. i.) To conform to the doctrines, observances, or methods of the Jews; to inculcate or impose Judaism.
Judaize (v. t.) To impose Jewish observances or rites upon; to convert to Judaism.
Judaizer (n.) One who conforms to or inculcates Judaism; specifically, pl. (Ch. Hist.), those Jews who accepted Christianity but still adhered to the law of Moses and worshiped in the temple at Jerusalem.
Judas (n.) The disciple who betrayed Christ. Hence: A treacherous person; one who betrays under the semblance of friendship.
Judas (a.) Treacherous; betraying.
Judas-colored (a.) Red; -- from a tradition that Judas Iscariot had red hair and beard.
Juddock (n.) See Jacksnipe.
Judean (a.) Of or pertaining to Judea.
Judean (n.) A native of Judea; a Jew.
Judge (v. i.) A public officer who is invested with authority to hear and determine litigated causes, and to administer justice between parties in courts held for that purpose.
Judge (v. i.) One who has skill, knowledge, or experience, sufficient to decide on the merits of a question, or on the quality or value of anything; one who discerns properties or relations with skill and readiness; a connoisseur; an expert; a critic.
Judge (v. i.) A person appointed to decide in a/trial of skill, speed, etc., between two or more parties; an umpire; as, a judge in a horse race.
Judge (v. i.) One of supreme magistrates, with both civil and military powers, who governed Israel for more than four hundred years.
Judge (v. i.) The title of the seventh book of the Old Testament; the Book of Judges.
Judged (imp. & p. p.) of Judge
Judging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Judge
Judge (a.) To hear and determine, as in causes on trial; to decide as a judge; to give judgment; to pass sentence.
Judge (a.) To assume the right to pass judgment on another; to sit in judgment or commendation; to criticise or pass adverse judgment upon others. See Judge, v. t., 3.
Judge (v. t.) To compare facts or ideas, and perceive their relations and attributes, and thus distinguish truth from falsehood; to determine; to discern; to distinguish; to form an opinion about.
Judge (v. t.) To hear and determine by authority, as a case before a court, or a controversy between two parties.
Judge (v. t.) To examine and pass sentence on; to try; to doom.
Judge (v. t.) To arrogate judicial authority over; to sit in judgment upon; to be censorious toward.
Judge (v. t.) To determine upon or deliberation; to esteem; to think; to reckon.
Judge (v. t.) To exercise the functions of a magistrate over; to govern.
Judger (n.) One who judges.
Judgeship (n.) The office of a judge.
Judgment (v. i.) The act of judging; the operation of the mind, involving comparison and discrimination, by which a knowledge of the values and relations of thins, whether of moral qualities, intellectual concepts, logical propositions, or material facts, is obtained; as, by careful judgment he avoided the peril; by a series of wrong judgments he forfeited confidence.
Judgment (v. i.) The power or faculty of performing such operations (see 1); esp., when unqualified, the faculty of judging or deciding rightly, justly, or wisely; good sense; as, a man of judgment; a politician without judgment.
Judgment (v. i.) The conclusion or result of judging; an opinion; a decision.
Judgment (v. i.) The act of determining, as in courts of law, what is conformable to law and justice; also, the determination, decision, or sentence of a court, or of a judge; the mandate or sentence of God as the judge of all.
Judgment (v. i.) That act of the mind by which two notions or ideas which are apprehended as distinct are compared for the purpose of ascertaining their agreement or disagreement. See 1. The comparison may be threefold: (1) Of individual objects forming a concept. (2) Of concepts giving what is technically called a judgment. (3) Of two judgments giving an inference. Judgments have been further classed as analytic, synthetic, and identical.
Judgment (v. i.) That power or faculty by which knowledge dependent upon comparison and discrimination is acquired. See 2.
Judgment (v. i.) A calamity regarded as sent by God, by way of recompense for wrong committed; a providential punishment.
Judgment (v. i.) The final award; the last sentence.
Judicable (v. i.) Capable of being judged; capable of being tried or decided upon.
Judicative (a.) Having power to judge; judicial; as, the judicative faculty.
Judicatory (a.) Pertaining to the administration of justice; dispensing justice; judicial; as, judicatory tribunals.
Judicatory (n.) A court of justice; a tribunal.
Judicatory (n.) Administration of justice.
Judicature (n.) The state or profession of those employed in the administration of justice; also, the dispensing or administration of justice.
Judicature (n.) A court of justice; a judicatory.
Judicature (n.) The right of judicial action; jurisdiction; extent jurisdiction of a judge or court.
Judicial (a.) Pertaining or appropriate to courts of justice, or to a judge; practiced or conformed to in the administration of justice; sanctioned or ordered by a court; as, judicial power; judicial proceedings; a judicial sale.
Judicial (a.) Fitted or apt for judging or deciding; as, a judicial mind.
Judicial (a.) Belonging to the judiciary, as distinguished from legislative, administrative, or executive. See Executive.
Judicial (a.) Judicious.
Judicially (adv.) In a judicial capacity or judicial manner.
Judiciary (a.) Of or pertaining to courts of judicature, or legal tribunals; judicial; as, a judiciary proceeding.
Judiciary (n.) That branch of government in which judicial power is vested; the system of courts of justice in a country; the judges, taken collectively; as, an independent judiciary; the senate committee on the judiciary.
Judicious (a.) Of or relating to a court; judicial.
Judicious (a.) Directed or governed by sound judgment; having sound judgment; wise; prudent; sagacious; discreet.
Judiciously (adv.) In a judicious manner; with good judgment; wisely.
Judiciousness (n.) The quality or state of being judicious; sagacity; sound judgment.
Jug (n.) A vessel, usually of coarse earthenware, with a swelling belly and narrow mouth, and having a handle on one side.
Jug (n.) A pitcher; a ewer.
Jug (n.) A prison; a jail; a lockup.
Jugged (imp. & p. p.) of Jug
Jugging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jug
Jug (v. t.) To seethe or stew, as in a jug or jar placed in boiling water; as, to jug a hare.
Jug (v. t.) To commit to jail; to imprison.
Jug (v. i.) To utter a sound resembling this word, as certain birds do, especially the nightingale.
Jug (v. i.) To nestle or collect together in a covey; -- said of quails and partridges.
Jugal (a.) Relating to a yoke, or to marriage.
Jugal (a.) Pertaining to, or in the region of, the malar, or cheek bone.
Jugata (n. pl.) The figures of two heads on a medal or coin, either side by side or joined.
Jugated (a.) Coupled together.
Juge (n.) A judge.
Jugement (n.) Judgment.
Juger (n.) A Roman measure of land, measuring 28,800 square feet, or 240 feet in length by 120 in breadth.
Jugger (n.) An East Indian falcon. See Lugger.
Juggernaut (n.) One of the names under which Vishnu, in his incarnation as Krishna, is worshiped by the Hindoos.
Juggled (imp. & p. p.) of Juggle
Juggling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Juggle
Juggle (v. i.) To play tricks by sleight of hand; to cause amusement and sport by tricks of skill; to conjure.
Juggle (v. i.) To practice artifice or imposture.
Juggle (v. t.) To deceive by trick or artifice.
Juggle (n.) A trick by sleight of hand.
Juggle (n.) An imposture; a deception.
Juggle (n.) A block of timber cut to a length, either in the round or split.
Juggler (n.) One who practices or exhibits tricks by sleight of hand; one skilled in legerdemain; a conjurer.
Juggler (n.) A deceiver; a cheat.
Juggleress (n.) A female juggler.
Jugglery (n.) The art or act of a juggler; sleight of hand.
Jugglery (n.) Trickery; imposture; as, political jugglery.
Juggling (a.) Cheating; tricky.
Juggling (n.) Jugglery; underhand practice.
Juggs (n. pl.) See Jougs.
Juglandin (n.) An extractive matter contained in the juice of the green shucks of the walnut (Juglans regia). It is used medicinally as an alterative, and also as a black hair dye.
Juglandine (n.) An alkaloid found in the leaves of the walnut (Juglans regia).
Juglans (n.) A genus of valuable trees, including the true walnut of Europe, and the America black walnut, and butternut.
Juglone (n.) A yellow crystalline substance resembling quinone, extracted from green shucks of the walnut (Juglans regia); -- called also nucin.
Jugular (a.) Of or pertaining to the throat or neck; as, the jugular vein.
Jugular (a.) Of or pertaining to the jugular vein; as, the jugular foramen.
Jugular (a.) Having the ventral fins beneath the throat; -- said of certain fishes.
Jugular (a.) One of the large veins which return the blood from the head to the heart through two chief trunks, an external and an internal, on each side of the neck; -- called also the jugular vein.
Jugular (a.) Any fish which has the ventral fins situated forward of the pectoral fins, or beneath the throat; one of a division of fishes (Jugulares).
Jugulated (imp. & p. p.) of Jugulate
Jugulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jugulate
Jugulate (v. t.) To cut the throat of.
Jugula (pl. ) of Jugulum
Jugulum (n.) The lower throat, or that part of the neck just above the breast.
Juga (pl. ) of Jugum
Jugums (pl. ) of Jugum
Jugum (n.) One of the ridges commonly found on the fruit of umbelliferous plants.
Jugum (n.) A pair of the opposite leaflets of a pinnate plant.
Juice (n.) The characteristic fluid of any vegetable or animal substance; the sap or part which can be expressed from fruit, etc.; the fluid part which separates from meat in cooking.
Juice (v. t.) To moisten; to wet.
Juiceless (a.) Lacking juice; dry.
Juiciness (n.) The state or quality of being juicy; succulence plants.
Juicy (superl.) A bounding with juice; succulent.
Juise (n.) Judgment; justice; sentence.
Jujube (n.) The sweet and edible drupes (fruits) of several Mediterranean and African species of small trees, of the genus Zizyphus, especially the Z. jujuba, Z. vulgaris, Z. mucronata, and Z. Lotus. The last named is thought to have furnished the lotus of the ancient Libyan Lotophagi, or lotus eaters.
Juke (v. i.) To bend the neck; to bow or duck the head.
Juke (n.) The neck of a bird.
Juke (v. i.) To perch on anything, as birds do.
Julaceous (a.) Like an ament, or bearing aments; amentaceous.
Julep (n.) A refreshing drink flavored with aromatic herbs
Julep (n.) a sweet, demulcent, acidulous, or mucilaginous mixture, used as a vehicle.
Julep (n.) A beverage composed of brandy, whisky, or some other spirituous liquor, with sugar, pounded ice, and sprigs of mint; -- called also mint julep.
Julian (a.) Relating to, or derived from, Julius Caesar.
Julienne (n.) A kind of soup containing thin slices or shreds of carrots, onions, etc.
Juliform (a.) Having the shape or appearance of a julus or catkin.
Juli (pl. ) of Julus
Julus (n.) A catkin or ament. See Ament.
Julies (pl. ) of July
July (n.) The seventh month of the year, containing thirty-one days.
July-flower (n.) See Gillyflower.
Jumart (n.) The fabled offspring of a bull and a mare.
Jumbled (imp. & p. p.) of Jumble
Jumbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jumble
Jumble (v. t.) To mix in a confused mass; to put or throw together without order; -- often followed by together or up.
Jumble (v. i.) To meet or unite in a confused way; to mix confusedly.
Jumble (n.) A confused mixture; a mass or collection without order; as, a jumble of words.
Jumble (n.) A small, thin, sugared cake, usually ring-shaped.
Jumblement (n.) Confused mixture.
Jumbler (n.) One who confuses things.
Jumblingly (adv.) In a confused manner.
Jument (n.) A beast; especially, a beast of burden.
Jump (n.) A kind of loose jacket for men.
Jump (n.) A bodice worn instead of stays by women in the 18th century.
Jumped (imp. & p. p.) of Jump
Jumping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jump
Jump (v. i.) To spring free from the ground by the muscular action of the feet and legs; to project one's self through the air; to spring; to bound; to leap.
Jump (v. i.) To move as if by jumping; to bounce; to jolt.
Jump (v. i.) To coincide; to agree; to accord; to tally; -- followed by with.
Jump (v. t.) To pass by a spring or leap; to overleap; as, to jump a stream.
Jump (v. t.) To cause to jump; as, he jumped his horse across the ditch.
Jump (v. t.) To expose to danger; to risk; to hazard.
Jump (v. t.) To join by a butt weld.
Jump (v. t.) To thicken or enlarge by endwise blows; to upset.
Jump (v. t.) To bore with a jumper.
Jump (n.) The act of jumping; a leap; a spring; a bound.
Jump (n.) An effort; an attempt; a venture.
Jump (n.) The space traversed by a leap.
Jump (n.) A dislocation in a stratum; a fault.
Jump (n.) An abrupt interruption of level in a piece of brickwork or masonry.
Jump (a.) Nice; exact; matched; fitting; precise.
Jump (adv.) Exactly; pat.
Jumper (n.) One who, or that which, jumps.
Jumper (n.) A long drilling tool used by masons and quarrymen.
Jumper (n.) A rude kind of sleigh; -- usually, a simple box on runners which are in one piece with the poles that form the thills.
Jumper (n.) The larva of the cheese fly. See Cheese fly, under Cheese.
Jumper (n.) A name applied in the 18th century to certain Calvinistic Methodists in Wales whose worship was characterized by violent convulsions.
Jumper (n.) spring to impel the star wheel, also a pawl to lock fast a wheel, in a repeating timepiece.
Jumper (n.) A loose upper garment
Jumper (n.) A sort of blouse worn by workmen over their ordinary dress to protect it.
Jumper (n.) A fur garment worn in Arctic journeys.
Jumping (p. a. & vb. n.) of Jump, to leap.
Jumpweld (v. t.) See Buttweld, v. t.
Juncaceous (a.) Of. pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants (Juncaceae), of which the common rush (Juncus) is the type.
Juncate (n.) See Junket.
Juncite (n.) A fossil rush.
Junco (n.) Any bird of the genus Junco, which includes several species of North American finches; -- called also snowbird, or blue snowbird.
Juncous (a.) Full of rushes: resembling rushes; juncaceous.
Junction (n.) The act of joining, or the state of being joined; union; combination; coalition; as, the junction of two armies or detachments; the junction of paths.
Junction (n.) The place or point of union, meeting, or junction; specifically, the place where two or more lines of railway meet or cross.
Juncture (n.) A joining; a union; an alliance.
Juncture (n.) The line or point at which two bodies are joined; a joint; an articulation; a seam; as, the junctures of a vessel or of the bones.
Juncture (n.) A point of time; esp., one made critical or important by a concurrence of circumstances; hence, a crisis; an exigency.
June (n.) The sixth month of the year, containing thirty days.
Juneating (n.) A kind of early apple.
Juneberry (n.) The small applelike berry of American trees of genus Amelanchier; -- also called service berry.
Juneberry (n.) The shrub or tree which bears this fruit; -- also called shad bush, and had tree.
Jungermanniae (pl. ) of Jungermannia
Jungermannia (n.) A genus of hepatic mosses, now much circumscribed, but formerly comprising most plants of the order, which is sometimes therefore called Jungermanniaceae.
Jungle (n.) A dense growth of brushwood, grasses, reeds, vines, etc.; an almost impenetrable thicket of trees, canes, and reedy vegetation, as in India, Africa, Australia, and Brazil.
Jungly (a.) Consisting of jungles; abounding with jungles; of the nature of a jungle.
Junior (a.) Less advanced in age than another; younger.
Junior (a.) Lower in standing or in rank; later in office; as, a junior partner; junior counsel; junior captain.
Junior (a.) Composed of juniors, whether younger or a lower standing; as, the junior class; of or pertaining to juniors or to a junior class. See Junior, n., 2.
Junior (n.) Belonging to a younger person, or an earlier time of life.
Junior (n.) A younger person.
Junior (n.) Hence: One of a lower or later standing; specifically, in American colleges, one in the third year of his course, one in the fourth or final year being designated a senior; in some seminaries, one in the first year, in others, one in the second year, of a three years' course.
Juniority (n.) The state or quality of being junior.
Juniper (n.) Any evergreen shrub or tree, of the genus Juniperus and order Coniferae.
Juniperin (n.) A yellow amorphous substance extracted from juniper berries.
Juniperite (n.) One of the fossil Coniferae, evidently allied to the juniper.
Junk (n.) A fragment of any solid substance; a thick piece. See Chunk.
Junk (n.) Pieces of old cable or old cordage, used for making gaskets, mats, swabs, etc., and when picked to pieces, forming oakum for filling the seams of ships.
Junk (n.) Old iron, or other metal, glass, paper, etc., bought and sold by junk dealers.
Junk (n.) Hard salted beef supplied to ships.
Junk (n.) A large vessel, without keel or prominent stem, and with huge masts in one piece, used by the Chinese, Japanese, Siamese, Malays, etc., in navigating their waters.
Junker (n.) A young German noble or squire; esp., a member of the aristocratic party in Prussia.
Junkerism (n.) The principles of the aristocratic party in Prussia.
Junket (n.) A cheese cake; a sweetmeat; any delicate food.
Junket (n.) A feast; an entertainment.
Junket (v. i.) To feast; to banquet; to make an entertainment; -- sometimes applied opprobriously to feasting by public officers at the public cost.
Junketed (imp. & p. p.) of Junket
Junketing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Junket
Junket (v. t.) To give entertainment to; to feast.
Junketing (n.) A feast or entertainment; a revel.
Junketries (n. pl.) Sweetmeats.
Junos (pl. ) of June
June (n.) The sister and wife of Jupiter, the queen of heaven, and the goddess who presided over marriage. She corresponds to the Greek Hera.
June (n.) One of the early discovered asteroids.
Juntas (pl. ) of Junta
Junta (n.) A council; a convention; a tribunal; an assembly; esp., the grand council of state in Spain.
Juntos (pl. ) of Junto
Junto (n.) A secret council to deliberate on affairs of government or politics; a number of men combined for party intrigue; a faction; a cabal; as, a junto of ministers; a junto of politicians.
Junartie (n.) Jeopardy.
Jupati palm () A great Brazilian palm tree (Raphia taedigera), used by the natives for many purposes.
Jupe (n.) Same as Jupon.
Jupiter (n.) The supreme deity, king of gods and men, and reputed to be the son of Saturn and Rhea; Jove. He corresponds to the Greek Zeus.
Jupiter (n.) One of the planets, being the brightest except Venus, and the largest of them all, its mean diameter being about 85,000 miles. It revolves about the sun in 4,332.6 days, at a mean distance of 5.2028 from the sun, the earth's mean distance being taken as unity.
Jupon (n.) Alt. of Juppon
Juppon (n.) A sleeveless jacket worn over the armor in the 14th century. It fitted closely, and descended below the hips.
Juppon (n.) A petticoat.
Jura (n.) 1. A range of mountains between France and Switzerland.
Jura (n.) The Jurassic period. See Jurassic.
Jural (a.) Pertaining to natural or positive right.
Jural (a.) Of or pertaining to jurisprudence.
Juramenta (pl. ) of Juramentum
Juramentum (n.) An oath.
Jurassic (a.) Of the age of the middle Mesozoic, including, as divided in England and Europe, the Lias, Oolite, and Wealden; -- named from certain rocks of the Jura mountains.
Jurassic (n.) The Jurassic period or formation; -- called also the Jura.
Jurat (n.) A person under oath; specifically, an officer of the nature of an alderman, in certain municipal corporations in England.
Jurat (n.) The memorandum or certificate at the end of an asffidavit, or a bill or answer in chancery, showing when, before whom, and (in English practice), where, it was sworn or affirmed.
Juratory (a.) Relating to or comprising an oath; as, juratory caution.
Jura-trias (n.) A term applied to many American Mesozoic strata, in which the characteristics of the Jurassic and Triassic periods appear to be blended.
Jurdiccion (n.) Jurisdiction.
Jurdon (n.) Jordan.
Jurel (n.) A yellow carangoid fish of the Atlantic and Gulf coasts (Caranx chrysos), most abundant southward, where it is valued as a food fish; -- called also hardtail, horse crevalle, jack, buffalo jack, skipjack, yellow mackerel, and sometimes, improperly, horse mackerel. Other species of Caranx (as C. fallax) are also sometimes called jurel.
Juridic (a.) Alt. of Juridical
Juridical (a.) Pertaining to a judge or to jurisprudence; acting in the distribution of justice; used in courts of law; according to law; legal; as, juridical law.
Juridically (adv.) In a juridical manner.
Jurisconsult (n.) A man learned in the civil law; an expert in juridical science; a professor of jurisprudence; a jurist.
Jurisdiction (a.) The legal power, right, or authority of a particular court to hear and determine causes, to try criminals, or to execute justice; judicial authority over a cause or class of causes; as, certain suits or actions, or the cognizance of certain crimes, are within the jurisdiction of a particular court, that is, within the limits of its authority or commission.
Jurisdiction (a.) The authority of a sovereign power to govern or legislate; the right of making or enforcing laws; the power or right of exercising authority.
Jurisdiction (a.) Sphere of authority; the limits within which any particular power may be exercised, or within which a government or a court has authority.
Jurisdictional (a.) Of or pertaining to jurisdiction; as jurisdictional rights.
Jurisdictive (a.) Having jurisdiction.
Jurisprudence (a.) The science of juridical law; the knowledge of the laws, customs, and rights of men in a state or community, necessary for the due administration of justice.
Jurisprudent (a.) Understanding law; skilled in jurisprudence.
Jurisprudent (n.) One skilled in law or jurisprudence.
Jurisprudential (a.) Of or pertaining to jurisprudence.
Jurist (a.) One who professes the science of law; one versed in the law, especially in the civil law; a writer on civil and international law.
Juristic (a.) Alt. of Juristical
Juristical (a.) Of or pertaining to a jurist, to the legal profession, or to jurisprudence.
Juror (n.) A member of a jury; a juryman.
Juror (n.) A member of any jury for awarding prizes, etc.
Jury (a.) For temporary use; -- applied to a temporary contrivance.
Juries (pl. ) of Jury
Jury (a.) A body of men, usually twelve, selected according to law, impaneled and sworn to inquire into and try any matter of fact, and to render their true verdict according to the evidence legally adduced. See Grand jury under Grand, and Inquest.
Jury (a.) A committee for determining relative merit or awarding prizes at an exhibition or competition; as, the art jury gave him the first prize.
Jurymen (pl. ) of Juryman
Juryman (n.) One who is impaneled on a jury, or who serves as a juror.
Jury-rigged (a.) Rigged for temporary service. See Jury, a.
Jussi (n.) A delicate fiber, produced in the Philippine Islands from an unidentified plant, of which dresses, etc., are made.
Just (a.) Conforming or conformable to rectitude or justice; not doing wrong to any; violating no right or obligation; upright; righteous; honest; true; -- said both of persons and things.
Just (a.) Not transgressing the requirement of truth and propriety; conformed to the truth of things, to reason, or to a proper standard; exact; normal; reasonable; regular; due; as, a just statement; a just inference.
Just (a.) Rendering or disposed to render to each one his due; equitable; fair; impartial; as, just judge.
Just (adv.) Precisely; exactly; -- in place, time, or degree; neither more nor less than is stated.
Just (adv.) Closely; nearly; almost.
Just (adv.) Barely; merely; scarcely; only; by a very small space or time; as, he just missed the train; just too late.
Just (v. i.) To joust.
Just (n.) A joust.
Justice (a.) The quality of being just; conformity to the principles of righteousness and rectitude in all things; strict performance of moral obligations; practical conformity to human or divine law; integrity in the dealings of men with each other; rectitude; equity; uprightness.
Justice (a.) Conformity to truth and reality in expressing opinions and in conduct; fair representation of facts respecting merit or demerit; honesty; fidelity; impartiality; as, the justice of a description or of a judgment; historical justice.
Justice (a.) The rendering to every one his due or right; just treatment; requital of desert; merited reward or punishment; that which is due to one's conduct or motives.
Justice (a.) Agreeableness to right; equity; justness; as, the justice of a claim.
Justice (a.) A person duly commissioned to hold courts, or to try and decide controversies and administer justice.
Justice (v. t.) To administer justice to.
Justiceable (a.) Liable to trial in a court of justice.
Justicehood (n.) Justiceship.
Justicement (n.) Administration of justice; procedure in courts of justice.
Justicer (n.) One who administers justice; a judge.
Justiceship (n.) The office or dignity of a justice.
Justiciable (a.) Proper to be examined in a court of justice.
Justiciar (n.) Same as Justiciary.
Justiciary (n.) An old name for the judges of the higher English courts.
Justico (n.) Alt. of Justicoat
Justicoat (n.) Formerly, a close coat or waistcoat with sleeves.
Justifiable (a.) Capable of being justified, or shown to be just.
Justification (n.) The act of justifying or the state of being justified; a showing or proving to be just or conformable to law, justice, right, or duty; defense; vindication; support; as, arguments in justification of the prisoner's conduct; his disobedience admits justification.
Justification (n.) The showing in court of a sufficient lawful reason why a party charged or accused did that for which he is called to answer.
Justification (n.) The act of justifying, or the state of being justified, in respect to God's requirements.
Justification (n.) Adjustment of type by spacing it so as to make it exactly fill a line, or of a cut so as to hold it in the right place; also, the leads, quads, etc., used for making such adjustment.
Justificative (a.) Having power to justify; justificatory.
Justificator (n.) One who justifies or vindicates; a justifier.
Justificatory (a.) Vindicatory; defensory; justificative.
Justifier (n.) One who justifies; one who vindicates, supports, defends, or absolves.
Justified (imp. & p. p.) of Justify
Justifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Justify
Justify (a.) To prove or show to be just; to vindicate; to maintain or defend as conformable to law, right, justice, propriety, or duty.
Justify (a.) To pronounce free from guilt or blame; to declare or prove to have done that which is just, right, proper, etc.; to absolve; to exonerate; to clear.
Justify (a.) To treat as if righteous and just; to pardon; to exculpate; to absolve.
Justify (a.) To prove; to ratify; to confirm.
Justify (a.) To make even or true, as lines of type, by proper spacing; to adjust, as type. See Justification, 4.
Justify (v. i.) To form an even surface or true line with something else; to fit exactly.
Justify (v. i.) To take oath to the ownership of property sufficient to qualify one's self as bail or surety.
Justinian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Institutes or laws of the Roman Justinian.
Justle (v. i.) To run or strike against each other; to encounter; to clash; to jostle.
Justled (imp. & p. p.) of Justle
Justling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Justle
Justle (v. t.) To push; to drive; to force by running against; to jostle.
Justle (n.) An encounter or shock; a jostle.
Justly (a.) In a just manner; in conformity to law, justice, or propriety; by right; honestly; fairly; accurately.
Justness (n.) The quality of being just; conformity to truth, propriety, accuracy, exactness, and the like; justice; reasonableness; fairness; equity; as, justness of proportions; the justness of a description or representation; the justness of a cause.
Jutted (imp. & p. p.) of Jut
Jutting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Jut
Jut (v. i.) To shoot out or forward; to project beyond the main body; as, the jutting part of a building.
Jut (v. i.) To butt.
Jut (n.) That which projects or juts; a projection.
Jut (n.) A shove; a push.
Jute (n.) The coarse, strong fiber of the East Indian Corchorus olitorius, and C. capsularis; also, the plant itself. The fiber is much used for making mats, gunny cloth, cordage, hangings, paper, etc.
Jutes (n. pl.) Jutlanders; one of the Low German tribes, a portion of which settled in Kent, England, in the 5th century.
Jutlander (n.) A native or inhabitant of Jutland in Denmark.
Jutlandish (a.) Of or pertaining to Jutland, or to the people of Jutland.
Jutting (a.) Projecting, as corbels, cornices, etc.
Jutty (n.) A projection in a building; also, a pier or mole; a jetty.
Jutty (v. t. & i.) To project beyond.
Juvenal (n.) A youth.
Juvenescence (n.) A growing young.
Juvenescent (a.) Growing or becoming young.
Juvenile (a.) Young; youthful; as, a juvenile appearance.
Juvenile (a.) Of or pertaining to youth; as, juvenile sports.
Juvenile (n.) A young person or youth; -- used sportively or familiarly.
Juvenileness (n.) The state or quality of being juvenile; juvenility.
Juvenilities (pl. ) of Juvenility
Juvenility (n.) Youthfulness; adolescence.
Juvenility (n.) The manners or character of youth; immaturity.
Juvia (n.) A Brazilian name for the lofty myrtaceous tree (Bertholetia excelsa) which produces the large seeds known as Brazil nuts.
Juwansa (n.) The camel's thorn. See under Camel.
Juwise (n.) Same as Juise.
Juxtapose (v. t.) To place in juxtaposition.
Juxtaposited (imp. & p. p.) of Juxtaposit
Juxtapositing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Juxtaposit
Juxtaposit (v. t.) To place in close connection or contiguity; to juxtapose.
Juxtaposition (v. i.) A placing or being placed in nearness or contiguity, or side by side; as, a juxtaposition of words.
Junold (a.) See Gimmal.
K () the eleventh letter of the English alphabet, is nonvocal consonant. The form and sound of the letter K are from the Latin, which used the letter but little except in the early period of the language. It came into the Latin from the Greek, which received it from a Phoenician source, the ultimate origin probably being Egyptian. Etymologically K is most nearly related to c, g, h (which see).
Kaama (n.) The hartbeest.
Kabala (n.) See Cabala.
Kabassou (n.) See Cabassou.
Kabob (n. & v. t.) See Cabob, n. & v. t.
Kabook (n.) A clay ironstone found in Ceylon.
Kabyle (n.) A Berber, as in Algiers or Tunis. See Berber.
Kadder (n.) The jackdaw.
Kadi (n.) Alt. of Kadiaster
Kadiaster (n.) A Turkish judge. See Cadi.
Kafal (n.) The Arabian name of two trees of the genus Balsamodendron, which yield a gum resin and a red aromatic wood.
Kaffir (n.) Alt. of Kafir
Kafir (n.) One of a race which, with the Hottentots and Bushmen, inhabit South Africa. They inhabit the country north of Cape Colony, the name being now specifically applied to the tribes living between Cape Colony and Natal; but the Zulus of Natal are true Kaffirs.
Kafir (n.) One of a race inhabiting Kafiristan in Central Asia.
Kaffle (n.) See Coffle.
Kafilah (n.) See Cafila.
Kaftan (n & v.) See Caftan.
Kage (n.) A chantry chapel inclosed with lattice or screen work.
Kagu (n.) A singular, crested, grallatorial bird (Rhinochetos jubatus), native of New Caledonia. It is gray above, paler beneath, and the feathers of the wings and tail are handsomely barred with brown, black, and gray. It is allied to the sun bittern.
Kaguan (n.) The colugo.
Kahani (n.) A kind of notary public, or attorney, in the Levant.
Kahau (n.) A long-nosed monkey (Semnopithecus nasalis), native of Borneo. The general color of the body is bright chestnut, with the under parts, shoulders, and sides of the head, golden yellow, and the top of the head and upper part of the back brown. Called also proboscis monkey.
Kail (n.) A kind of headless cabbage. Same as Kale, 1.
Kail (n.) Any cabbage, greens, or vegetables.
Kail (n.) A broth made with kail or other vegetables; hence, any broth; also, a dinner.
Kaimacam (n.) Same as Caimacam.
Kain (n.) Poultry, etc., required by the lease to be paid in kind by a tenant to his landlord.
Kainit (n.) Salts of potassium used in the manufacture of fertilizers.
Kainite (n.) A compound salt consisting chiefly of potassium chloride and magnesium sulphate, occurring at the Stassfurt salt mines in Prussian Saxony.
Kainozoic (a.) See Cenozoic.
Kaique (n.) See Caique.
Kairine (n.) A pale buff or white crystalline alkaloid derived from quinoline, and used as an antipyretic in medicine.
Kairoline (n.) An organic base obtained from quinoline. It is used as a febrifuge, and resembles kairine.
Kaiser (n.) The ancient title of emperors of Germany assumed by King William of Prussia when crowned sovereign of the new German empire in 1871.
Kaka (n.) A New Zealand parrot of the genus Nestor, especially the brown parrot (Nestor meridionalis).
Kakapo (n.) A singular nocturnal parrot (Strigops habroptilus), native of New Zealand. It lives in holes during the day, but is active at night. It resembles an owl in its colors and general appearance. It has large wings, but can fly only a short distance. Called also owl parrot, night parrot, and night kaka.
Kakaralli (n.) A kind of wood common in Demerara, durable in salt water, because not subject to the depredations of the sea worm and barnacle.
Kakistocracy (n.) Government by the worst men.
Kakoxene (n.) See Cacoxene.
Kalan (n.) The sea otter.
Kalasie (n.) A long-tailed monkey of Borneo (Semnopithecus rubicundus). It has a tuft of long hair on the head.
Kale (n.) A variety of cabbage in which the leaves do not form a head, being nearly the original or wild form of the species.
Kale (n.) See Kail, 2.
Kaleege (n.) One of several species of large, crested, Asiatic pheasants, belonging to the genus Euplocamus, and allied to the firebacks.
Kaleidophon () Alt. of Kaleidophone
Kaleidophone () An instrument invented by Professor Wheatstone, consisting of a reflecting knob at the end of a vibrating rod or thin plate, for making visible, in the motion of a point of light reflected from the knob, the paths or curves corresponding with the musical notes produced by the vibrations.
Kaleidoscope (n.) An instrument invented by Sir David Brewster, which contains loose fragments of colored glass, etc., and reflecting surfaces so arranged that changes of position exhibit its contents in an endless variety of beautiful colors and symmetrical forms. It has been much employed in arts of design.
Kaleidoscopic (a.) Alt. of Kaleidoscopical
Kaleidoscopical (a.) Of, pertaining to, or formed by, a kaleidoscope; variegated.
Kalendar (n.) See Calendar.
Kalendarial (a.) See Calendarial.
Kalender (n.) See 3d Calender.
Kalends (n.) Same as Calends.
Kali (n.) The last and worst of the four ages of the world; -- considered to have begun B. C. 3102, and to last 432,000 years.
Kali (n.) The black, destroying goddess; -- called also Doorga, Anna Purna.
Kali (n.) The glasswort (Salsola Kali).
Kalif (n.) See Caliph.
Kaliform (a.) Formed like kali, or glasswort.
Kaligenous (a.) Forming alkalies with oxygen, as some metals.
Kalium (n.) Potassium; -- so called by the German chemists.
Kalki (n.) The name of Vishnu in his tenth and last avatar.
Kalmia (n.) A genus of North American shrubs with poisonous evergreen foliage and corymbs of showy flowers. Called also mountain laurel, ivy bush, lamb kill, calico bush, etc.
Kalmuck (n.) See Calmucks.
Kalmuck (n.) A kind of shaggy cloth, resembling bearskin.
Kalmuck (n.) A coarse, dyed, cotton cloth, made in Prussia.
Kalong (n.) A fruit bat, esp. the Indian edible fruit bat (Pteropus edulis).
Kaloyer (n.) See Caloyer.
Kalpa (n.) One of the Brahmanic eons, a period of 4,320,000,000 years. At the end of each Kalpa the world is annihilated.
Kalsomine (n. & v. t.) Same as Calcimine.
Kam (n.) Crooked; awry.
Kama (n.) The Hindoo Cupid. He is represented as a beautiful youth, with a bow of sugar cane or flowers.
Kamala (n.) The red dusty hairs of the capsules of an East Indian tree (Mallotus Philippinensis) used for dyeing silk. It is violently emetic, and is used in the treatment of tapeworm.
Kame (n.) A low ridge.
Kami (n. pl.) A title given to the celestial gods of the first mythical dynasty of Japan and extended to the demigods of the second dynasty, and then to the long line of spiritual princes still represented by the mikado.
Kamichi (n.) A curious South American bird (Anhima, / Palamedea, cornuta), often domesticated by the natives and kept with poultry, which it defends against birds of prey. It has a long, slender, hornlike ornament on its head, and two sharp spurs on each wing. Although its beak, feet, and legs resemble those of gallinaceous birds, it is related in anatomical characters to the ducks and geese (Anseres). Called also horned screamer. The name is sometimes applied also to the chaja. See Chaja, and Screamer.
Kamptulicon (n.) A kind of elastic floor cloth, made of India rubber, gutta-percha, linseed oil, and powdered cork.
Kampylite (n.) A variety of mimetite or arseniate of lead in hexagonal prisms of a fine orange yellow.
Kamsin (n.) Alt. of Khamsin
Khamsin (n.) A hot southwesterly wind in Egypt, coming from the Sahara.
Kamtschadales (n. pl.) An aboriginal tribe inhabiting the southern part of Kamtschatka.
Kan (v. t.) To know; to ken.
Kan (n.) See Khan.
Kanacka (n.) Alt. of Kanaka
Kanaka (n.) A native of the Sandwich Islands.
Kanchil (n.) A small chevrotain of the genus Tragulus, esp. T. pygmaeus, or T. kanchil, inhabiting Java, Sumatra, and adjacent islands; a deerlet. It is noted for its agility and cunning.
Kand (n.) Fluor spar; -- so called by Cornish miners.
Kangaroo (n.) Any one of numerous species of jumping marsupials of the family Macropodidae. They inhabit Australia, New Guinea, and adjacent islands, They have long and strong hind legs and a large tail, while the fore legs are comparatively short and feeble. The giant kangaroo (Macropus major) is the largest species, sometimes becoming twelve or fourteen feet in total length. The tree kangaroos, belonging to the genus Dendrolagus, live in trees; the rock kangaroos, of the genus Petrogale, inhabit rocky situations; and the brush kangaroos, of the genus Halmaturus, inhabit wooded districts. See Wallaby.
Kansas (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians allied to the Winnebagoes and Osages. They formerly inhabited the region which is now the State of Kansas, but were removed to the Indian Territory.
Kantian (a.) Of or pertaining to Immanuel Kant, the German philosopher; conformed or relating to any or all of the philosophical doctrines of Immanuel Kant.
Kantian (n.) A follower of Kant; a Kantist.
Kantianism (n.) Alt. of Kantism
Kantism (n.) The doctrine or theory of Kant; the Kantian philosophy.
Kantist (n.) A disciple or follower of Kant.
Kanttry (n.) Same as Cantred.
Kaolin (n.) Alt. of Kaoline
Kaoline (n.) A very pure white clay, ordinarily in the form of an impalpable powder, and used to form the paste of porcelain; China clay; porcelain clay. It is chiefly derived from the decomposition of common feldspar.
Kaolinization (n.) The process by which feldspar is changed into kaolin.
Kaolinize (v. t.) To convert into kaolin.
Kapelle (n.) A chapel; hence, the choir or orchestra of a prince's chapel; now, a musical establishment, usually orchestral.
Kapellmeister (n.) See Capellmeister.
Kapia (n.) The fossil resin of the kauri tree of New Zealand.
Kapnomar (n. Chem.) ) See Capnomor.
Karagane (n.) A species of gray fox found in Russia.
Karaism (n.) Doctrines of the Karaites.
Karaite (n.) A sect of Jews who adhere closely to the letter of the Scriptures, rejecting the oral law, and allowing the Talmud no binding authority; -- opposed to the Rabbinists.
Karatas (n.) A West Indian plant of the Pineapple family (Nidularium Karatas).
Karma (n.) One's acts considered as fixing one's lot in the future existence. (Theos.) The doctrine of fate as the inflexible result of cause and effect; the theory of inevitable consequence.
Karmathian (n.) One of a Mohammedan sect founded in the ninth century by Karmat.
Karn (n.) A pile of rocks; sometimes, the solid rock. See Cairn.
Karob (n.) The twenty-fourth part of a grain; -- a weight used by goldsmiths.
Karpholite (n.) A fibrous mineral occurring in tufts of a straw-yellow color. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and manganese.
Karroos (pl. ) of Karreo
Karreo (n.) One of the dry table-lands of South Africa, which often rise terracelike to considerable elevations.
Karstenite (n.) Same as Anhydrite.
Karvel (n.) See Carvel, and Caravel.
Karyokinesis (n.) The indirect division of cells in which, prior to division of the cell protoplasm, complicated changes take place in the nucleus, attended with movement of the nuclear fibrils; -- opposed to karyostenosis. The nucleus becomes enlarged and convoluted, and finally the threads are separated into two groups which ultimately become disconnected and constitute the daughter nuclei. Called also mitosis. See Cell development, under Cell.
Karyokinetic (a.) Of or pertaining to karyokinesis; as, karyokinetic changes of cell division.
Karyomiton (n.) The reticular network of fine fibers, of which the nucleus of a cell is in part composed; -- in opposition to kytomiton, or the network in the body of the cell.
Karyoplasma (n.) The protoplasmic substance of the nucleus of a cell: nucleoplasm; -- in opposition to kytoplasma, the protoplasm of the cell.
Karyostenosis (n.) Direct cell division (in which there is first a simple division of the nucleus, without any changes in its structure, followed by division of the protoplasm of the karyostenotic mode of nuclear division.
Kasack (n.) Same as Cossack.
Kat (n.) An Arabian shrub Catha edulis) the leaves of which are used as tea by the Arabs.
Katabolic (a.) Of or pertaining to katabolism; as, katabolic processes, which give rise to substances (katastates) of decreasing complexity and increasing stability.
Katabolism (n.) Destructive or downward metabolism; regressive metamorphism; -- opposed to anabolism. See Disassimilation.
Katastate (n.) (Physiol.) A substance formed by a katabolic process; -- opposed to anastate. See Katabolic.
Kate (n.) The brambling finch.
Kathetal (a.) Making a right angle; perpendicular, as two lines or two sides of a triangle, which include a right angle.
Kathetometer (n.) Same as Cathetometer.
Kattinumdoo (n.) A caoutchouc like substance obtained from the milky juice of the East Indian Euphorbia Kattimundoo. It is used as a cement.
Katydid (n.) A large, green, arboreal, orthopterous insect (Cyrtophyllus concavus) of the family Locustidae, common in the United States. The males have stridulating organs at the bases of the front wings. During the summer and autumn, in the evening, the males make a peculiar, loud, shrill sound, resembling the combination Katy-did, whence the name.
Kauri (n.) A lofty coniferous tree of New Zealand Agathis, / Dammara, australis), furnishing valuable timber and yielding one kind of dammar resin.
Kava (n.) A species of Macropiper (M. methysticum), the long pepper, from the root of which an intoxicating beverage is made by the Polynesians, by a process of mastication; also, the beverage itself.
Kavasses (pl. ) of Kavass
Kavass (n.) An armed constable; also, a government servant or courier.
Kaw (v. i. & n.) See Caw.
Kawaka (n.) a New Zealand tree, the Cypress cedar (Libocedrus Doniana), having a valuable, fine-grained, reddish wood.
Kawn (n.) An inn.
Kayak (n.) A light canoe, made of skins stretched over a frame, and usually capable of carrying but one person, who sits amidships and uses a double-bladed paddle. It is peculiar to the Eskimos and other Arctic tribes.
Kayaker (n.) One who uses a kayak.
Kayko (n.) The dog salmon.
Kayles (n. pl.) A game; ninepins.
Kaynard (n.) A lazy or cowardly person; a rascal.
Kecked (imp. & p. p.) of Keck
Kecking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Keck
Keck (v. i.) To heave or to retch, as in an effort to vomit.
Keck (n.) An effort to vomit; queasiness.
Keckle (v. i. & n.) See Keck, v. i. & n.
Keckled (imp. & p. p.) of Keckle
Keckling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Keckle
Keckle (v. t.) To wind old rope around, as a cable, to preserve its surface from being fretted, or to wind iron chains around, to defend from the friction of a rocky bottom, or from the ice.
Keckling (n.) Old rope or iron chains wound around a cable. See Keckle, v. t.
Kecklish (a.) Inclined to vomit; squeamish.
Kecksies (pl. ) of Kecksy
Kecksy (n.) The hollow stalk of an umbelliferous plant, such as the cow parsnip or the hemlock.
Kecky (a.) Resembling a kecksy.
Kedged (imp. & p. p.) of Kedge
Kedging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Kedge
Kedge (n.) To move (a vessel) by carrying out a kedge in a boat, dropping it overboard, and hauling the vessel up to it.
Kedge (v. t.) A small anchor used whenever a large one can be dispensed witch. See Kedge, v. t., and Anchor, n.
Kedger (n.) A small anchor; a kedge.
Kedlook (n.) See Charlock.
Kee (n. pl.) See Kie, Ky, and Kine.
Keech (n.) A mass or lump of fat rolled up by the butcher.
Keel (v. t. & i.) To cool; to skim or stir.
Keel (n.) A brewer's cooling vat; a keelfat.
Keel (n.) A longitudinal timber, or series of timbers scarfed together, extending from stem to stern along the bottom of a vessel. It is the principal timber of the vessel, and, by means of the ribs attached on each side, supports the vessel's frame. In an iron vessel, a combination of plates supplies the place of the keel of a wooden ship. See Illust. of Keelson.
Keel (n.) Fig.: The whole ship.
Keel (n.) A barge or lighter, used on the Type for carrying coal from Newcastle; also, a barge load of coal, twenty-one tons, four cwt.
Keel (n.) The two lowest petals of the corolla of a papilionaceous flower, united and inclosing the stamens and pistil; a carina. See Carina.
Keel (n.) A projecting ridge along the middle of a flat or curved surface.
Keeled (imp. & p. p.) of Keel
Keeling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Keel
Keel (v. i.) To traverse with a keel; to navigate.
Keel (v. i.) To turn up the keel; to show the bottom.
Keelage (n.) The right of demanding a duty or toll for a ship entering a port; also, the duty or toll.
Keeled (a.) Keel-shaped; having a longitudinal prominence on the back; as, a keeled leaf.
Keeled (a.) Having a median ridge; carinate; as, a keeled scale.
Keeler (n.) One employed in managing a Newcastle keel; -- called also keelman.
Keeler (n.) A small or shallow tub; esp., one used for holding materials for calking ships, or one used for washing dishes, etc.
Keelfat (n.) A cooler; a vat for cooling wort, etc.
Keelhauled (imp. & p. p.) of Keelhaul
Keelhauling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Keelhaul
Keelhaul (v. i.) To haul under the keel of a ship, by ropes attached to the yardarms on each side. It was formerly practiced as a punishment in the Dutch and English navies.
Keeling (n.) A cod.
Keelivine (n.) A pencil of black or red lead; -- called also keelyvine pen.
men (pl. ) of Keelman
Keelman (n.) See Keeler, 1.
Keelrake (v. t.) Same as Keelhaul.
Keels (n. pl.) Ninepins. See Kayles.
Keelson (n.) A piece of timber in a ship laid on the middle of the floor timbers over the keel, and binding the floor timbers to the keel; in iron vessels, a structure of plates, situated like the keelson of a timber ship.
Keelvat (n.) See Keelfat.
Keen (superl.) Sharp; having a fine edge or point; as, a keen razor, or a razor with a keen edge.
Keen (superl.) Acute of mind; sharp; penetrating; having or expressing mental acuteness; as, a man of keen understanding; a keen look; keen features.
Keen (superl.) Bitter; piercing; acrimonious; cutting; stinging; severe; as, keen satire or sarcasm.
Keen (superl.) Piercing; penetrating; cutting; sharp; -- applied to cold, wind, etc, ; as, a keen wind; the cold is very keen.
Keen (superl.) Eager; vehement; fierce; as, a keen appetite.
Keen (v. t.) To sharpen; to make cold.
Keen (n.) A prolonged wail for a deceased person. Cf. Coranach.
Keen (v. i.) To wail as a keener does.
Keener (n.) A professional mourner who wails at a funeral.
Keenly (adv.) In a keen manner.
Keenness (n.) The quality or state of being keen.
Kept (imp. & p. p.) of Keep
Keeping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Keep
Keep (v. t.) To care; to desire.
Keep (v. t.) To hold; to restrain from departure or removal; not to let go of; to retain in one's power or possession; not to lose; to retain; to detain.
Keep (v. t.) To cause to remain in a given situation or condition; to maintain unchanged; to hold or preserve in any state or tenor.
Keep (v. t.) To have in custody; to have in some place for preservation; to take charge of.
Keep (v. t.) To preserve from danger, harm, or loss; to guard.
Keep (v. t.) To preserve from discovery or publicity; not to communicate, reveal, or betray, as a secret.
Keep (v. t.) To attend upon; to have the care of; to tend.
Keep (v. t.) To record transactions, accounts, or events in; as, to keep books, a journal, etc. ; also, to enter (as accounts, records, etc. ) in a book.
Keep (v. t.) To maintain, as an establishment, institution, or the like; to conduct; to manage; as, to keep store.
Keep (v. t.) To supply with necessaries of life; to entertain; as, to keep boarders.
Keep (v. t.) To have in one's service; to have and maintain, as an assistant, a servant, a mistress, a horse, etc.
Keep (v. t.) To have habitually in stock for sale.
Keep (v. t.) To continue in, as a course or mode of action; not to intermit or fall from; to hold to; to maintain; as, to keep silence; to keep one's word; to keep possession.
Keep (v. t.) To observe; to adhere to; to fulfill; not to swerve from or violate; to practice or perform, as duty; not to neglect; to be faithful to.
Keep (v. t.) To confine one's self to; not to quit; to remain in; as, to keep one's house, room, bed, etc. ; hence, to haunt; to frequent.
Keep (v. t.) To observe duty, as a festival, etc. ; to celebrate; to solemnize; as, to keep a feast.
Keep (v. i.) To remain in any position or state; to continue; to abide; to stay; as, to keep at a distance; to keep aloft; to keep near; to keep in the house; to keep before or behind; to keep in favor; to keep out of company, or out reach.
Keep (v. i.) To last; to endure; to remain unimpaired.
Keep (v. i.) To reside for a time; to lodge; to dwell.
Keep (v. i.) To take care; to be solicitous; to watch.
Keep (v. i.) To be in session; as, school keeps to-day.
Keep (n.) The act or office of keeping; custody; guard; care; heed; charge.
Keep (n.) The state of being kept; hence, the resulting condition; case; as, to be in good keep.
Keep (n.) The means or provisions by which one is kept; maintenance; support; as, the keep of a horse.
Keep (n.) That which keeps or protects; a stronghold; a fortress; a castle; specifically, the strongest and securest part of a castle, often used as a place of residence by the lord of the castle, especially during a siege; the donjon. See Illust. of Castle.
Keep (n.) That which is kept in charge; a charge.
Keep (n.) A cap for retaining anything, as a journal box, in place.
Keeper (n.) One who, or that which, keeps; one who, or that which, holds or has possession of anything.
Keeper (n.) One who retains in custody; one who has the care of a prison and the charge of prisoners.
Keeper (n.) One who has the care, custody, or superintendence of anything; as, the keeper of a park, a pound, of sheep, of a gate, etc. ; the keeper of attached property; hence, one who saves from harm; a defender; a preserver.
Keeper (n.) One who remains or keeps in a place or position.
Keeper (n.) A ring, strap, clamp, or any device for holding an object in place; as: (a) The box on a door jamb into which the bolt of a lock protrudes, when shot. (b) A ring serving to keep another ring on the finger. (c) A loop near the buckle of a strap to receive the end of the strap.
Keeper (n.) A fruit that keeps well; as, the Roxbury Russet is a good keeper.
Keepership (n.) The office or position of a keeper.
Keeping (n.) A holding; restraint; custody; guard; charge; care; preservation.
Keeping (n.) Maintenance; support; provision; feed; as, the cattle have good keeping.
Keeping (n.) Conformity; congruity; harmony; consistency; as, these subjects are in keeping with each other.
Keeping (n.) Harmony or correspondence between the different parts of a work of art; as, the foreground of this painting is not in keeping.
Keepsake (n.) Anything kept, or given to be kept, for the sake of the giver; a token of friendship.
Keesh (n.) See Kish.
Keeve (n.) A vat or tub in which the mash is made; a mash tub.
Keeve (n.) A bleaching vat; a kier.
Keeve (n.) A large vat used in dressing ores.
Keeved (imp. & p. p.) of Keeve
Keeving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Keeve
Keeve (v. t.) To set in a keeve, or tub, for fermentation.
Keeve (v. t.) To heave; to tilt, as a cart.
Keever (n.) See Keeve, n.
Keffe-kil (n.) See Kiefekil.
Keg (n.) A small cask or barrel.
Keilhau-ite (n.) A mineral of a brownish black color, related to titanite in form. It consists chiefly of silica, titanium dioxide, lime, and yttria.
Keir (n.) See Kier.
Keitloa (n.) A black, two-horned, African rhinoceros (Atelodus keitloa). It has the posterior horn about as long as the anterior one, or even longer.
Keld (a.) Having a kell or covering; webbed.
Kele (v. t.) To cool.
Kell (n.) A kiln.
Kell (n.) A sort of pottage; kale. See Kale, 2.
Kell (n.) The caul; that which covers or envelops as a caul; a net; a fold; a film.
Kell (n.) The cocoon or chrysalis of an insect.
Keloid (a.) Applied to a variety of tumor forming hard, flat, irregular excrescences upon the skin.
Keloid (n.) A keloid tumor.
Kelotomy (n.) See Celotomy.
Kelp (n.) The calcined ashes of seaweed, -- formerly much used in the manufacture of glass, now used in the manufacture of iodine.
Kelp (n.) Any large blackish seaweed.
Kelpfish (n.) A small California food fish (Heterostichus rostratus), living among kelp. The name is also applied to species of the genus Platyglossus.
Kelpies (pl. ) of Kelpy
Kelpie (n.) Alt. of Kelpy
Kelpy (n.) An imaginary spirit of the waters, horselike in form, vulgarly believed to warn, by preternatural noises and lights, those who are to be drowned.
Kelpware (n.) Same as Kelp, 2.
Kelson (n.) See Keelson.
Kelt (n.) See Kilt, n.
Kelt (n.) Cloth with the nap, generally of native black wool.
Kelt (n.) A salmon after spawning.
Kelt (n.) Same as Celt, one of Celtic race.
Kelter (n.) Regular order or proper condition.
Keltic (a. & n.) Same as Celtic, a. & n.
Kembed (imp. & p. p.) of Kemb
Kempt () of Kemb
Kembing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Kemb
Kemb (v. t.) To comb.
Kemelin (n.) A tub; a brewer's vessel.
Kemp (n.) Alt. of Kempty
Kempty (n.) Coarse, rough hair wool or fur, injuring its quality.
Kempe (a.) Rough; shaggy.
Kemps (n. pl.) The long flower stems of the ribwort plantain (Plantago Lanceolata).
Kempt () p. p. of Kemb.
Ken (n.) A house; esp., one which is a resort for thieves.
Kenned (imp. & p. p.) of Ken
Kenning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ken
Ken (n. t.) To know; to understand; to take cognizance of.
Ken (n. t.) To recognize; to descry; to discern.
Ken (v. i.) To look around.
Ken (n.) Cognizance; view; especially, reach of sight or knowledge.
Kendal green () Alt. of Kendal
Kendal () A cloth colored green by dye obtained from the woad-waxen, formerly used by Flemish weavers at Kendal, in Westmoreland, England.
Kennel (n.) The water course of a street; a little canal or channel; a gutter; also, a puddle.
Kennel (n.) A house for a dog or for dogs, or for a pack of hounds.
Kennel (n.) A pack of hounds, or a collection of dogs.
Kennel (n.) The hole of a fox or other beast; a haunt.
Kenneled (imp. & p. p.) of Kennel
Kennelled () of Kennel
Kennelling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Kennel
Kennel (v. i.) To lie or lodge; to dwell, as a dog or a fox.
Kennel (v. t.) To put or keep in a kennel.
Kennel coal () See Cannel coal.
Kenning (v. t.) Range of sight.
Kenning (v. t.) The limit of vision at sea, being a distance of about twenty miles.
Keno (n.) A gambling game, a variety of the game of lotto, played with balls or knobs, numbered, and cards also numbered.
Kenogenesis (n.) Modified evolution, in which nonprimitive characters make their appearance in consequence of a secondary adaptation of the embryo to the peculiar conditions of its environment; -- distinguished from palingenesis.
Kenogenetic (a.) Of or pertaining to kenogenesis; as, kenogenetic processes.
Kenspeckle (a.) Having so marked an appearance as easily to be recognized.
Kent bugle () A curved bugle, having six finger keys or stops, by means of which the performer can play upon every key in the musical scale; -- called also keyed bugle, and key bugle.
Kentle (n.) A hundred weight; a quintal.
Kentledge (n.) Pigs of iron used for ballast.
Kentucky (n.) One of the United States.
Kephalin (n.) One of a group of nitrogenous phosphorized principles, supposed by Thudichum to exist in brain tissue.
Kept (imp. & p. p.) of Keep.
Keramic (a.) Same as Ceramic.
Keramics (n.) Same as Ceramics.
Keramographic (a.) Suitable to be written upon; capable of being written upon, as a slate; -- said especially of a certain kind of globe.
Kerana (n.) A kind of long trumpet, used among the Persians.
Kerargyrite (n.) See Cerargyrite.
Kerasin (n.) A nitrogenous substance free from phosphorus, supposed to be present in the brain; a body closely related to cerebrin.
Kerasine (a.) Resembling horn; horny; corneous.
Keratin (n.) A nitrogenous substance, or mixture of substances, containing sulphur in a loose state of combination, and forming the chemical basis of epidermal tissues, such as horn, hair, feathers, and the like. It is an insoluble substance, and, unlike elastin, is not dissolved even by gastric or pancreatic juice. By decomposition with sulphuric acid it yields leucin and tyrosin, as does albumin. Called also epidermose.
Keratitis (n.) Inflammation of the cornea.
Keratode (n.) See Keratose.
Keratogenous (a.) Producing horn; as, the keratogenous membrane within the horny hoof of the horse.
Keratoidea (n. pl.) Same as Keratosa.
Keratome (n.) An instrument for dividing the cornea in operations for cataract.
Keratonyxis (n.) The operation of removing a cataract by thrusting a needle through the cornea of the eye, and breaking up the opaque mass.
Keratophyte (n.) A gorgonian coral having a horny axis.
Keratosa (n. pl.) An order of sponges having a skeleton composed of hornlike fibers. It includes the commercial sponges.
Keratose (n.) A tough, horny animal substance entering into the composition of the skeleton of sponges, and other invertebrates; -- called also keratode.
Keratose (a.) Containing hornlike fibers or fibers of keratose; belonging to the Keratosa.
Keraunograph (n.) A figure or picture impressed by lightning upon the human body or elsewhere.
Kerb (n.) See Curb.
Kerbstone (n.) See Curbstone.
Kercher (n.) A kerchief.
Kerchered (a.) Covered, or bound round, with a kercher.
Kerchiefs (pl. ) of Kerchief
Kerchief (n.) A square of fine linen worn by women as a covering for the head; hence, anything similar in form or material, worn for ornament on other parts of the person; -- mostly used in compounds; as, neckerchief; breastkerchief; and later, handkerchief.
Kerchief (n.) A lady who wears a kerchief.
Kerchiefed (a.) Alt. of Kerchieft
Kerchieft (a.) Dressed; hooded; covered; wearing a kerchief.
Kerf (n.) A notch, channel, or slit made in any material by cutting or sawing.
Kerite (n.) A compound in which tar or asphaltum combined with animal or vegetable oils is vulcanized by sulphur, the product closely resembling rubber; -- used principally as an insulating material in telegraphy.
Kerl (n.) See Carl.
Kermes (n.) The dried bodies of the females of a scale insect (Coccus ilicis), allied to the cochineal insect, and found on several species of oak near the Mediterranean. They are round, about the size of a pea, contain coloring matter analogous to carmine, and are used in dyeing. They were anciently thought to be of a vegetable nature, and were used in medicine.
Kermes (n.) A small European evergreen oak (Quercus coccifera) on which the kermes insect (Coccus ilicis) feeds.
Kermesse (n.) See Kirmess.
Kern (n.) A light-armed foot soldier of the ancient militia of Ireland and Scotland; -- distinguished from gallowglass, and often used as a term of contempt.
Kern (n.) Any kind of boor or low-lived person.
Kern (n.) An idler; a vagabond.
Kern (n.) A part of the face of a type which projects beyond the body, or shank.
Kerned (imp. & p. p.) of Kern
Kerning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Kern
Kern (v. t.) To form with a kern. See 2d Kern.
Kern (n.) A churn.
Kern (n.) A hand mill. See Quern.
Kern (v. i.) To harden, as corn in ripening.
Kern (v. i.) To take the form of kernels; to granulate.
Kerned (a.) Having part of the face projecting beyond the body or shank; -- said of type.
Kernel (n.) The essential part of a seed; all that is within the seed walls; the edible substance contained in the shell of a nut; hence, anything included in a shell, husk, or integument; as, the kernel of a nut. See Illust. of Endocarp.
Kernel (n.) A single seed or grain; as, a kernel of corn.
Kernel (n.) A small mass around which other matter is concreted; a nucleus; a concretion or hard lump in the flesh.
Kernel (n.) The central, substantial or essential part of anything; the gist; the core; as, the kernel of an argument.
Kerneled (imp. & p. p.) of Kernel
Kernelled () of Kernel
Kerneling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Kernel
Kernelling () of Kernel
Kernel (v. i.) To harden or ripen into kernels; to produce kernels.
Kerneled (a.) Alt. of Kernelled
Kernelled (a.) Having a kernel.
Kernelly (a.) Full of kernels; resembling kernels; of the nature of kernels.
Kerish (a.) Clownish; boorish.
Kerolite (n.) Same as Cerolite.
Kerosene (n.) An oil used for illuminating purposes, formerly obtained from the distillation of mineral wax, bituminous shale, etc., and hence called also coal oil. It is now produced in immense quantities, chiefly by the distillation and purification of petroleum. It consists chiefly of several hydrocarbons of the methane series.
Kers (n.) Alt. of Kerse
Kerse (n.) A cress.
Kerseys (pl. ) of Kersey
Kersey (n.) A kind of coarse, woolen cloth, usually ribbed, woven from wool of long staple.
Kerseymere (n.) See Cassimere.
Kerseynette (n.) See Cassinette.
Kerve (v. t.) To carve.
Kerver (n.) A carver.
Kesar (n.) See Kaiser.
Keslop (n.) The stomach of a calf, prepared for rennet.
Kess (v. t.) To kiss.
Kest (imp.) of Cast.
Kestrel (n.) A small, slender European hawk (Falco alaudarius), allied to the sparrow hawk. Its color is reddish fawn, streaked and spotted with white and black. Also called windhover and stannel. The name is also applied to other allied species.
Ket (n.) Carrion; any filth.
Ketch (n.) An almost obsolete form of vessel, with a mainmast and a mizzenmast, -- usually from one hundred to two hundred and fifty tons burden.
Ketch (n.) A hangman. See Jack Ketch.
Ketch (v. t.) To catch.
Ketchup (n.) A sauce. See Catchup.
Ketine (n.) One of a series of organic bases obtained by the reduction of certain isonitroso compounds of the ketones. In general they are unstable oily substances having a pungent aromatic odor.
Ketmie (n.) The name of certain African species of Hibiscus, cultivated for the acid of their mucilage.
Ketol (n.) One of a series of series of complex nitrogenous substances, represented by methyl ketol and related to indol.
Ketone (n.) One of a large class of organic substances resembling the aldehydes, obtained by the distillation of certain salts of organic acids and consisting of carbonyl (CO) united with two hydrocarbon radicals. In general the ketones are colorless volatile liquids having a pungent ethereal odor.
Ketonic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, a ketone; as, a ketonic acid.
Kettle (n.) A metallic vessel, with a wide mouth, often without a cover, used for heating and boiling water or other liguids.
Kettledrum (n.) A drum made of thin copper in the form of a hemispherical kettle, with parchment stretched over the mouth of it.
Kettledrum (n.) An informal social party at which a light collation is offered, held in the afternoon or early evening. Cf. Drum, n., 4 and 5.
Kettledrummer (n.) One who plays on a kettledrum.
Keuper (n.) The upper division of the European Triassic. See Chart of Geology.
Kevel (n.) A strong cleat to which large ropes are belayed.
Kevel (n.) A stone mason's hammer.
Kevel (n.) Alt. of Kevin
Kevin (n.) The gazelle.
Kever (v. t. &) i. To cover.
Keverchief (n.) A kerchief.
Kex (n.) A weed; a kecksy.
Kex (n.) A dry husk or covering.
Key (n.) An instrument by means of which the bolt of a lock is shot or drawn; usually, a removable metal instrument fitted to the mechanism of a particular lock and operated by turning in its place.
Key (n.) An instrument which is turned like a key in fastening or adjusting any mechanism; as, a watch key; a bed key, etc.
Key (n.) That part of an instrument or machine which serves as the means of operating it; as, a telegraph key; the keys of a pianoforte, or of a typewriter.
Key (n.) A position or condition which affords entrance, control, pr possession, etc.; as, the key of a line of defense; the key of a country; the key of a political situation. Hence, that which serves to unlock, open, discover, or solve something unknown or difficult; as, the key to a riddle; the key to a problem.
Key (n.) That part of a mechanism which serves to lock up, make fast, or adjust to position.
Key (n.) A piece of wood used as a wedge.
Key (n.) The last board of a floor when laid down.
Key (n.) A keystone.
Key (n.) That part of the plastering which is forced through between the laths and holds the rest in place.
Key (n.) A wedge to unite two or more pieces, or adjust their relative position; a cotter; a forelock.
Key (n.) A bar, pin or wedge, to secure a crank, pulley, coupling, etc., upon a shaft, and prevent relative turning; sometimes holding by friction alone, but more frequently by its resistance to shearing, being usually embedded partly in the shaft and partly in the crank, pulley, etc.
Key (n.) An indehiscent, one-seeded fruit furnished with a wing, as the fruit of the ash and maple; a samara; -- called also key fruit.
Key (n.) A family of tones whose regular members are called diatonic tones, and named key tone (or tonic) or one (or eight), mediant or three, dominant or five, subdominant or four, submediant or six, supertonic or two, and subtonic or seven. Chromatic tones are temporary members of a key, under such names as " sharp four," "flat seven," etc. Scales and tunes of every variety are made from the tones of a key.
Key (n.) The fundamental tone of a movement to which its modulations are referred, and with which it generally begins and ends; keynote.
Key (n.) Fig: The general pitch or tone of a sentence or utterance.
Keved (imp. & p. p.) of Key
Keying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Key
Key (v. t.) To fasten or secure firmly; to fasten or tighten with keys or wedges.
Keyage (n.) Wharfage; quayage.
Keyboard (n.) The whole arrangement, or one range, of the keys of an organ, typewriter, etc.
Key-cold (a.) Cold as a metallic key; lifeless.
Keyed (a.) Furnished with keys; as, a keyed instrument; also, set to a key, as a tune.
Keyhole (n.) A hole or apertupe in a door or lock, for receiving a key.
Keyhole (n.) A hole or excavation in beams intended to be joined together, to receive the key which fastens them.
Keyhole (n.) a mortise for a key or cotter.
Keynote (n.) The tonic or first tone of the scale in which a piece or passage is written; the fundamental tone of the chord, to which all the modulations of the piece are referred; -- called also key tone.
Keynote (n.) The fundamental fact or idea; that which gives the key; as, the keynote of a policy or a sermon.
Keyseat (v. t.) To form a key seat, as by cutting. See Key seat, under Key.
Keystone (n.) The central or topmost stone of an arch. This in some styles is made different in size from the other voussoirs, or projects, or is decorated with carving. See Illust. of Arch.
Key tone () See Keynote.
Keyway (n.) See Key way, under Key.
Khaliff (n.) See Caliph.
Khamsin (n.) Same as Kamsin.
Khan (n.) A king; a prince; a chief; a governor; -- so called among the Tartars, Turks, and Persians, and in countries now or formerly governed by them.
Khan (n.) An Eastern inn or caravansary.
Khanate (n.) Dominion or jurisdiction of a khan.
Khaya (n.) A lofty West African tree (Khaya Senegalensis), related to the mahogany, which it resembles in the quality of the wood. The bark is used as a febrifuge.
Khedive (n.) A governor or viceroy; -- a title granted in 1867 by the sultan of Turkey to the ruler of Egypt.
Khenna (n.) See Henna.
Kholah (n.) The Indian jackal.
Kholsun (n.) The dhole.
Khutbah (n.) An address or public prayer read from the steps of the pulpit in Mohammedan mosques, offering glory to God, praising Mohammed and his descendants, and the ruling princes.
Kiabooca wood () See Kyaboca wood.
Kiang (n.) The dziggetai.
Kibble (v. t.) To bruise; to grind coarsely; as, kibbled oats.
Kibble (n.) A large iron bucket used in Cornwall and Wales for raising ore out of mines.
Kibblings (n. pl.) Portions of small fish used for bait on the banks of Newfoundland.
Kibe (n.) A chap or crack in the flesh occasioned by cold; an ulcerated chilblain.
Kibed (a.) Chapped; cracked with cold; affected with chilblains; as kibed heels.
Kibitkas (pl. ) of Kibitka
Kibitka (n.) A tent used by the Kirghiz Tartars.
Kibitka (n.) A rude kind of Russian vehicle, on wheels or on runners, sometimes covered with cloth or leather, and often used as a movable habitation.
Kiblah (n.) See Keblah.
Kiby (a.) Affected with kibes.
Kichil (n.) See Kechil.
Kicred (imp. & p. p.) of Kick
Kicking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Kick
Kick (v. t.) To strike, thrust, or hit violently with the foot; as, a horse kicks a groom; a man kicks a dog.
Kick (v. i.) To thrust out the foot or feet with violence; to strike out with the foot or feet, as in defense or in bad temper; esp., to strike backward, as a horse does, or to have a habit of doing so. Hence, figuratively: To show ugly resistance, opposition, or hostility; to spurn.
Kick (v. i.) To recoil; -- said of a musket, cannon, etc.
Kick (n.) A blow with the foot or feet; a striking or thrust with the foot.
Kick (n.) The projection on the tang of the blade of a pocket knife, which prevents the edge of the blade from striking the spring. See Illust. of Pocketknife.
Kick (n.) A projection in a mold, to form a depression in the surface of the brick.
Kick (n.) The recoil of a musket or other firearm, when discharged.
Kickable (a.) Capable or deserving of being kicked.
Kickapoos (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians which formerly occupied the region of Northern Illinois, allied in language to the Sacs and Foxes.
Kicker (n.) One who, or that which, kicks.
Kickshaw (n.) See Kickshaws, the correct singular.
Kickshawses (pl. ) of Kickshaws
Kickshaws (n.) Something fantastical; any trifling, trumpery thing; a toy.
Kickshaws (n.) A fancy dish; a titbit; a delicacy.
Kickshoe (n.) A kickshaws.
Kicksy-wicksy (n.) Alt. of Kicky-wisky
Kicky-wisky (n.) That which is restless and uneasy.
Kicksy-wicksy (a.) Fantastic; restless; as, kicksy-wicksy flames.
Kickup (n.) The water thrush or accentor.
Kid (n.) A young goat.
Kid (n.) A young child or infant; hence, a simple person, easily imposed on.
Kid (n.) A kind of leather made of the skin of the young goat, or of the skin of rats, etc.
Kid (n.) Gloves made of kid.
Kid (n.) A small wooden mess tub; -- a name given by sailors to one in which they receive their food.
Kidded (imp. & p. p.) of Kid
Kidding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Kid
Kid (v. i.) To bring forth a young goat.
Kid (n.) A fagot; a bundle of heath and furze.
Kid (p. p.) of Kythe.
Kid (v. t.) See Kiddy, v. t.
Kidde (imp.) of Kythe.
Kidderminster (n.) A kind of ingrain carpeting, named from the English town where formerly most of it was manufactured.
Kiddier (n.) A huckster; a cadger.
Kiddle (n.) A kind of basketwork wear in a river, for catching fish.
Kiddow (n.) The guillemot.
Kiddy (v. t.) To deceive; to outwit; to hoax.
Kiddy (n.) A young fellow; formerly, a low thief.
Kiddyish (a.) Frolicsome; sportive.
Kidfox () A young fox.
Kidling (n.) A young kid.
Kidnaped (imp. & p. p.) of Kidnap
Kidnapped () of Kidnap
Kidnaping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Kidnap
Kidnapping () of Kidnap
Kidnap (v. t.) To take (any one) by force or fear, and against one's will, with intent to carry to another place.
Kidnaper (n.) Alt. of Kidnapper
Kidnapper (n.) One who steals or forcibly carries away a human being; a manstealer.
Kidneys (pl. ) of Kidney
Kidney (n.) A glandular organ which excretes urea and other waste products from the animal body; a urinary gland.
Kidney (n.) Habit; disposition; sort; kind.
Kidney (n.) A waiter.
Kidney-form (a.) Alt. of Kidney-shaped
Kidney-shaped (a.) Having the form or shape of a kidney; reniform; as, a kidney-shaped leaf.
Kidneywort (n.) A kind of saxifrage (Saxifrage stellaris).
Kidneywort (n.) The navelwort.
Kie (n. pl.) Kine; cows.
Kiefekil (n.) A species of clay; meerschaum.
Kier (n.) A large tub or vat in which goods are subjected to the action of hot lye or bleaching liquor; -- also called keeve.
Kieselguhr (n.) Siliceous earth; specifically, porous infusorial earth, used as an absorbent of nitroglycerin in the manufacture of dynamite.
Kieserite (n.) Hydrous sulphate of magnesia found at the salt mines of Stassfurt, Prussian Saxony.
Kieve (n.) See Keeve, n.
Kike (v. i.) To gaze; to stare.
Kike (v. t. & i.) To kick.
Kilderkin (n.) A small barrel; an old liquid measure containing eighteen English beer gallons, or nearly twenty-two gallons, United States measure.
Kill (n.) A kiln.
Kill (n.) A channel or arm of the sea; a river; a stream; as, the channel between Staten Island and Bergen Neck is the Kill van Kull, or the Kills; -- used also in composition; as, Schuylkill, Catskill, etc.
Killed (imp. & p. p.) of Kill
Killing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Kill
Kill (v. t.) To deprive of life, animal or vegetable, in any manner or by any means; to render inanimate; to put to death; to slay.
Kill (v. t.) To destroy; to ruin; as, to kill one's chances; to kill the sale of a book.
Kill (v. t.) To cause to cease; to quell; to calm; to still; as, in seamen's language, a shower of rain kills the wind.
Kill (v. t.) To destroy the effect of; to counteract; to neutralize; as, alkali kills acid.
Killdee (n.) Alt. of Killdeer
Killdeer (n.) A small American plover (Aegialitis vocifera).
Killer (n.) One who deprives of life; one who, or that which, kills.
Killer (n.) A voracious, toothed whale of the genus Orca, of which several species are known.
Killesse (n.) A gutter, groove, or channel.
Killesse (n.) A hipped roof.
Killifish (n.) Any one of several small American cyprinodont fishes of the genus Fundulus and allied genera. They live equally well in fresh and brackish water, or even in the sea. They are usually striped or barred with black. Called also minnow, and brook fish. See Minnow.
Killigrew (n.) The Cornish chough. See under Chough.
Killikinick (n.) See Kinnikinic.
Killing (a.) Literally, that kills; having power to kill; fatal; in a colloquial sense, conquering; captivating; irresistible.
Kill-joy (n.) One who causes gloom or grief; a dispiriting person.
Killock (n.) A small anchor; also, a kind of anchor formed by a stone inclosed by pieces of wood fastened together.
Killow (n.) An earth of a blackish or deep blue color.
Kiln (n.) A large stove or oven; a furnace of brick or stone, or a heated chamber, for the purpose of hardening, burning, or drying anything; as, a kiln for baking or hardening earthen vessels; a kiln for drying grain, meal, lumber, etc.; a kiln for calcining limestone.
Kiln (n.) A furnace for burning bricks; a brickkiln.
Kiln-dry (v. t.) To dry in a kiln; as, to kiln-dry meal or grain.
Kilnhole (n.) The mouth or opening of an oven or kiln.
Kilos (pl. ) of Kilo
Kilo (n.) An abbreviation of Kilogram.
Kilogram (n.) Alt. of Kilogramme
Kilogramme (n.) A measure of weight, being a thousand grams, equal to 2.2046 pounds avoirdupois (15,432.34 grains). It is equal to the weight of a cubic decimeter of distilled water at the temperature of maximum density, or 39 Fahrenheit.
Kilogrammeter (n.) Alt. of Kilogrammetre
Kilogrammetre (n.) A measure of energy or work done, being the amount expended in raising one kilogram through the height of one meter, in the latitude of Paris.
Kiloliter (n.) Alt. of Kilolitre
Kilolitre (n.) A measure of capacity equal to a cubic meter, or a thousand liters. It is equivalent to 35.315 cubic feet, and to 220.04 imperial gallons, or 264.18 American gallons of 321 cubic inches.
Kilometer (n.) Alt. of Kilometre
Kilometre (n.) A measure of length, being a thousand meters. It is equal to 3,280.8 feet, or 62137 of a mile.
Kilostere (n.) A cubic measure containing 1000 cubic meters, and equivalent to 35,315 cubic feet.
Kilowatt (n.) One thousand watts.
Kilt () p. p. from Kill.
Kilt (n.) A kind of short petticoat, reaching from the waist to the knees, worn in the Highlands of Scotland by men, and in the Lowlands by young boys; a filibeg.
Kilted (imp. & p. p.) of Kilt
Kilting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Kilt
Kilt (v. t.) To tuck up; to truss up, as the clothes.
Kilted (a.) Having on a kilt.
Kilted (a.) Plaited after the manner of kilting.
Kilted (a.) Tucked or fastened up; -- said of petticoats, etc.
Kilter (n.) See Kelter.
Kilting (n.) A perpendicular arrangement of flat, single plaits, each plait being folded so as to cover half the breadth of the preceding one.
Kimbo (a.) Crooked; arched; bent.
Kimmerian (a.) See Cimmerian.
Kimnel (n.) A tub. See Kemelin.
Kimry (n.) See Cymry.
kin () A diminutive suffix; as, manikin; lambkin.
Kin (n.) A primitive Chinese instrument of the cittern kind, with from five to twenty-five silken strings.
Kin (n.) Relationship, consanguinity, or affinity; connection by birth or marriage; kindred; near connection or alliance, as of those having common descent.
Kin (n.) Relatives; persons of the same family or race.
Kin (a.) Of the same nature or kind; kinder.
Kinaesodic (a.) Kinesodic.
Kinaesthesis (n.) The perception attendant upon the movements of the muscles.
Kinate (n.) See Quinate.
Kincob (n.) India silk brocaded with flowers in silver or gold.
Kincob (a.) Of the nature of kincob; brocaded.
Kind (superl.) Characteristic of the species; belonging to one's nature; natural; native.
Kind (superl.) Having feelings befitting our common nature; congenial; sympathetic; as, a kind man; a kind heart.
Kind (superl.) Showing tenderness or goodness; disposed to do good and confer happiness; averse to hurting or paining; benevolent; benignant; gracious.
Kind (superl.) Proceeding from, or characterized by, goodness, gentleness, or benevolence; as, a kind act.
Kind (superl.) Gentle; tractable; easily governed; as, a horse kind in harness.
Kind (a.) Nature; natural instinct or disposition.
Kind (a.) Race; genus; species; generic class; as, in mankind or humankind.
Kind (a.) Nature; style; character; sort; fashion; manner; variety; description; class; as, there are several kinds of eloquence, of style, and of music; many kinds of government; various kinds of soil, etc.
Kind (v. t.) To beget.
Kindergarten (n.) A school for young children, conducted on the theory that education should be begun by gratifying and cultivating the normal aptitude for exercise, play, observation, imitation, and construction; -- a name given by Friedrich Froebel, a German educator, who introduced this method of training, in rooms opening on a garden.
Kindergartner (n.) One who teaches in a kindergarten.
Kind-hearted (a.) Having kindness of nature; sympathetic; characterized by a humane disposition; as, a kind-hearted landlord.
Kind-heartedness (n.) The state or quality of being kind-hearted; benevolence.
Kindle (v. t. & i.) To bring forth young.
Kindled (imp. & p. p.) of Kindle
Kindling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Kindle
Kindle (v. t.) To set on fire; to cause to burn with flame; to ignite; to cause to begin burning; to start; to light; as, to kindle a match, or shavings.
Kindle (v. t.) Fig.: To inflame, as the passions; to rouse; to provoke; to excite to action; to heat; to fire; to animate; to incite; as, to kindle anger or wrath; to kindle the flame of love, or love into a flame.
Kindle (v. i.) To take fire; to begin to burn with flame; to start as a flame.
Kindle (v. i.) Fig.: To begin to be excited; to grow warm or animated; to be roused or exasperated.
Kindler (n.) One who, or that which, kindles, stirs up, or sets on fire.
Kindless (a.) Destitute of kindness; unnatural.
Kindliness (n.) Natural inclination; natural course.
Kindliness (n.) The quality or state of being kindly; benignity; benevolence; gentleness; tenderness; as, kindliness of disposition, of treatment, or of words.
Kindliness (n.) Softness; mildness; propitiousness; as, kindliness of weather, or of a season.
Kinding (n.) The of causing to burn, or of exciting or inflaming the passions.
Kinding (n.) Materials, easily lighted, for starting a fire.
Kindly (n.) According to the kind or nature; natural.
Kindly (n.) Humane; congenial; sympathetic; hence, disposed to do good to; benevolent; gracious; kind; helpful; as, kindly affections, words, acts, etc.
Kindly (n.) Favorable; mild; gentle; auspicious; beneficent.
Kindly (adv.) Naturally; fitly.
Kindly (adv.) In a kind manner; congenially; with good will; with a disposition to make others happy, or to oblige.
Kindness (a.) The state or quality of being kind, in any of its various senses; manifestation of kind feeling or disposition beneficence.
Kindness (a.) A kind act; an act of good will; as, to do a great kindness.
Kindred (n.) Relationship by birth or marriage; consanguinity; affinity; kin.
Kindred (n.) Relatives by blood or marriage, more properly the former; relations; persons related to each other.
Kindred (a.) Related; congenial; of the like nature or properties; as, kindred souls; kindred skies; kindred propositions.
Kine (n. pl.) Cows.
Kinematic (a.) Alt. of Kinematical
Kinematical (a.) Of or pertaining to kinematics.
Kinematics (n.) The science which treats of motions considered in themselves, or apart from their causes; the comparison and relation of motions.
Kinepox (n.) See Cowpox.
Kinepox (n.) See Kinetoscope.
Kinesiatrics (n.) A mode of treating disease by appropriate muscular movements; -- also termed kinesitherapy, kinesipathy, lingism, and the movement cure.
Kinesipathy (n.) See Kinesiatrics.
Kinesitherapy (n.) See Kinesiatrics.
Kinesipathy (n.) See Kinesiatrics.
Kinesodic (a.) Conveying motion; as; kinesodic substance; -- applied esp. to the spinal cord, because it is capable of conveying doth voluntary and reflex motor impulses, without itself being affected by motor impulses applied to it directly.
Kinetic (q.) Moving or causing motion; motory; active, as opposed to latent.
Kinetics (n.) See Dynamics.
Kinetogenesis (n.) An instrument for producing curves by the combination of circular movements; -- called also kinescope.
King (n.) A Chinese musical instrument, consisting of resonant stones or metal plates, arranged according to their tones in a frame of wood, and struck with a hammer.
King (n.) A chief ruler; a sovereign; one invested with supreme authority over a nation, country, or tribe, usually by hereditary succession; a monarch; a prince.
King (n.) One who, or that which, holds a supreme position or rank; a chief among competitors; as, a railroad king; a money king; the king of the lobby; the king of beasts.
King (n.) A playing card having the picture of a king; as, the king of diamonds.
King (n.) The chief piece in the game of chess.
King (n.) A crowned man in the game of draughts.
King (n.) The title of two historical books in the Old Testament.
Kinged (imp. & p. p.) of King
Kinging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of King
King (v. i.) To supply with a king; to make a king of; to raise to royalty.
Kingbird (n.) A small American bird (Tyrannus tyrannus, or T. Carolinensis), noted for its courage in attacking larger birds, even hawks and eagles, especially when they approach its nest in the breeding season. It is a typical tyrant flycatcher, taking various insects upon the wing. It is dark ash above, and blackish on the head and tail. The quills and wing coverts are whitish at the edges. It is white beneath, with a white terminal band on the tail. The feathers on the head of the adults show a bright orange basal spot when erected. Called also bee bird, and bee martin. Several Southern and Western species of Tyrannus are also called king birds.
Kingbird (n.) The king tody. See under King.
Kingbolt (n.) A vertical iron bolt, by which the forward axle and wheels of a vehicle or the trucks of a railroad car are connected with the other parts.
King Charles spaniel () A variety of small pet dogs, having, drooping ears, a high, dome-shaped forehead, pug nose, large, prominent eyes, and long, wavy hair. The color is usually black and tan.
Kingcraft (n.) The craft of kings; the art of governing as a sovereign; royal policy.
Kingcup (n.) The common buttercup.
Kingdom (n.) The rank, quality, state, or attributes of a king; royal authority; sovereign power; rule; dominion; monarchy.
Kingdom (n.) The territory or country subject to a king or queen; the dominion of a monarch; the sphere in which one is king or has control.
Kingdom (n.) An extensive scientific division distinguished by leading or ruling characteristics; a principal division; a department; as, the mineral kingdom.
Kingdomed (a.) Having a kingdom or the dignity of a king; like a kingdom.
Kingfish (n.) An American marine food fish of the genus Menticirrus, especially M. saxatilis, or M. nebulosos, of the Atlantic coast; -- called also whiting, surf whiting, and barb.
Kingfish (n.) The opah.
Kingfish (n.) The common cero; also, the spotted cero. See Cero.
Kingfish (n.) The queenfish.
Kingfisher (n.) Any one of numerous species of birds constituting the family Alcedinidae. Most of them feed upon fishes which they capture by diving and seizing then with the beak; others feed only upon reptiles, insects, etc. About one hundred and fifty species are known. They are found in nearly all parts of the world, but are particularly abundant in the East Indies.
Kinghood (n.) The state of being a king; the attributes of a king; kingship.
Kingless (a.) Having no king.
Kinglet (n.) A little king; a weak or insignificant king.
Kinglet (n.) Any one of several species of small singing birds of the genus Regulus and family Sylviidae.
Kinglihood (n.) King-liness.
Kingliness (n.) The state or quality of being kingly.
Kingling (n.) Same as Kinglet, 1.
Kingly (superl.) Belonging to, suitable to, or becoming, a king; characteristic of, resembling, a king; directed or administered by a king; monarchical; royal; sovereign; regal; august; noble; grand.
Kingly (adv.) In a kingly or kinglike manner.
King-post (n.) A member of a common form of truss, as a roof truss. It is strictly a tie, intended to prevent the sagging of the tiebeam in the middle. If there are struts, supporting the main rafters, they often bear upon the foot of the king-post. Called also crown-post.
King's Bench () Formerly, the highest court of common law in England; -- so called because the king used to sit there in person. It consisted of a chief justice and four puisne, or junior, justices. During the reign of a queen it was called the Queen's Bench. Its jurisdiction was transferred by the judicature acts of 1873 and 1875 to the high court of justice created by that legislation.
Kingship (n.) The state, office, or dignity of a king; royalty.
Kingston (n.) Alt. of Kingstone
Kingstone (n.) The black angel fish. See Angel fish, under Angel.
Kingston metal () An alloy of tin, copper, and mercury, sometimes used for the bearings and packings of machinery.
Kingston valve () A conical valve, opening outward, to close the mouth of a pipe which passes through the side of a vessel below the water line.
Kingtruss () A truss, framed with a king-post; -- used in roofs, bridges, etc.
Kinic (a.) See Quinic.
Kink (n.) A twist or loop in a rope or thread, caused by a spontaneous doubling or winding upon itself; a close loop or curl; a doubling in a cord.
Kink (n.) An unreasonable notion; a crotchet; a whim; a caprice.
Kinked (imp. & p. p.) of Kink
Kinking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Kink
Kink (v. i.) To wind into a kink; to knot or twist spontaneously upon itself, as a rope or thread.
Kink (n.) A fit of coughing; also, a convulsive fit of laughter.
Kinkajou (n.) A nocturnal carnivorous mammal (Cercoleptes caudivolvulus) of South America, about as large as a full-grown cat. It has a prehensile tail and lives in trees. It is the only representative of a distinct family (Cercoleptidae) allied to the raccoons. Called also potto, and honey bear.
Kinkhaust (n.) Whooping cough.
Kinkle (n.) Same as 3d Kink.
Kinky (a.) Full of kinks; liable to kink or curl; as, kinky hair.
Kinky (a.) Queer; eccentric; crotchety.
Kinnikinic (n.) Prepared leaves or bark of certain plants; -- used by the Indians of the Northwest for smoking, either mixed with tobacco or as a substitute for it. Also, a plant so used, as the osier cornel (Cornus stolonijra), and the bearberry (Arctostaphylus Uva-ursi).
Kino (n.) The dark red dried juice of certain plants, used variously in tanning, in dyeing, and as an astringent in medicine.
Kinology (n.) That branch of physics which treats of the laws of motion, or of moving bodies.
Kinone (n.) See Quinone.
Kinoyl (n.) See Quinoyl.
Kinrede (n.) Kindred.
Kinsfolk (n.) Relatives; kindred; kin; persons of the same family or closely or closely related families.
Kinship (n.) Family relationship.
Kinsmen (pl. ) of Kinsman
Kinsman (n.) A man of the same race or family; one related by blood.
Kinsmanship (n.) Kinship.
Kinswomen (pl. ) of Kinswoman
Kinswoman (n.) A female relative.
Kintlidge (n.) See Kentledge.
Kiosk (n.) A Turkish open summer house or pavilion, supported by pillars.
Kioways (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians distantly related to the Shoshones. They formerly inhabited the region about the head waters of the North Platte.
Kip (n.) The hide of a young or small beef creature, or leather made from it; kipskin.
Kipe (n.) An osier basket used for catching fish.
Kipper (n.) A salmon after spawning.
Kipper (n.) A salmon split open, salted, and dried or smoked; -- so called because salmon after spawning were usually so cured, not being good when fresh.
Kippered (imp. & p. p.) of Kipper
Kippering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Kipper
Kipper (v. t.) To cure, by splitting, salting, and smoking.
Kipper (a.) Amorous; also, lively; light-footed; nimble; gay; sprightly.
Kippernut (n.) A name given to earthnuts of several kinds.
Kipskin (n.) Leather prepared from the skin of young or small cattle, intermediate in grade between calfskin and cowhide.
Kirk (n.) A church or the church, in the various senses of the word; esp., the Church of Scotland as distinguished from other reformed churches, or from the Roman Catholic Church.
Kirked (a.) Turned upward; bent.
Kirkmen (pl. ) of Kirkman
Kirkman (n.) A clergyman or officer in a kirk.
Kirkman (n.) A member of the Church of Scotland, as distinguished from a member of another communion.
Kirkyard (n.) A churchyard.
Kirmess (n.) In Europe, particularly in Belgium and Holland, and outdoor festival and fair; in the United States, generally an indoor entertainment and fair combined.
Kirschwasser (n.) An alcoholic liquor, obtained by distilling the fermented juice of the small black cherry.
Kirsome (a.) Christian; christened.
Kirtle (n.) A garment varying in form and use at different times, and worn doth by men and women.
Kirtled (a.) Wearing a kirtle.
Kirumbo (n.) A bird of Madagascar (Leptosomus discolor), the only living type of a family allied to the rollers. It has a pair of loral plumes. The male is glossy green above, with metallic reflections; the female is spotted with brown and black.
Kish (n.) A workman's name for the graphite which forms incidentally in iron smelting.
Kismet (n.) Destiny; fate.
Kissed (imp. & p. p.) of Kiss
Kissing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Kiss
Kiss (v. t.) To salute with the lips, as a mark of affection, reverence, submission, forgiveness, etc.
Kiss (v. t.) To touch gently, as if fondly or caressingly.
Kiss (v. i.) To make or give salutation with the lips in token of love, respect, etc.; as, kiss and make friends.
Kiss (v. i.) To meet; to come in contact; to touch fondly.
Kiss (v.) A salutation with the lips, as a token of affection, respect, etc.; as, a parting kiss; a kiss of reconciliation.
Kiss (v.) A small piece of confectionery.
Kisser (n.) One who kisses.
Kissingcrust (n.) The portion of the upper crust of a loaf which has touched another loaf in baking.
Kist (n.) A chest; hence, a coffin.
Kist (n.) A stated payment, especially a payment of rent for land; hence, the time for such payment.
Kistvaen (n.) A Celtic monument, commonly known as a dolmen.
Kitte (imp.) of Kit
Kit (v. t.) To cut.
Kit (n.) A kitten.
Kit (n.) A small violin.
Kit (m.) A large bottle.
Kit (m.) A wooden tub or pail, smaller at the top than at the bottom; as, a kit of butter, or of mackerel.
Kit (m.) straw or rush basket for fish; also, any kind of basket.
Kit (m.) A box for working implements; hence, a working outfit, as of a workman, a soldier, and the like.
Kit (m.) A group of separate parts, things, or individuals; -- used with whole, and generally contemptuously; as, the whole kit of them.
Kitcat (a.) Designating a club in London, to which Addison and Steele belonged; -- so called from Christopher Cat, a pastry cook, who served the club with mutton pies.
Kitcat (a.) Designating a canvas used for portraits of a peculiar size, viz., twenty-right or twenty-nine inches by thirty-six; -- so called because that size was adopted by Sir Godfrey Kneller for the portraits he painted of the members of the Kitcat Club.
Kitcat (n.) A game played by striking with a stick small piece of wood, called a cat, shaped like two cones united at their bases; tipcat.
Kitchen (n.) A cookroom; the room of a house appropriated to cookery.
Kitchen (n.) A utensil for roasting meat; as, a tin kitchen.
Kitchen (v. t.) To furnish food to; to entertain with the fare of the kitchen.
Kitchener (n.) A kitchen servant; a cook.
Kitchenmaid (n.) A woman employed in the kitchen.
Kitchen middens () Relics of neolithic man found on the coast of Denmark, consisting of shell mounds, some of which are ten feet high, one thousand feet long, and two hundred feet wide. The name is applied also to similar mounds found on the American coast from Canada to Florida, made by the North American Indians.
Kitchen-ry (n.) The body of servants employed in the kitchen.
Kite (n.) Any raptorial bird of the subfamily Milvinae, of which many species are known. They have long wings, adapted for soaring, and usually a forked tail.
Kite (n.) Fig. : One who is rapacious.
Kite (n.) A light frame of wood or other material covered with paper or cloth, for flying in the air at the end of a string.
Kite (n.) A lofty sail, carried only when the wind is light.
Kite (n.) A quadrilateral, one of whose diagonals is an axis of symmetry.
Kite (n.) Fictitious commercial paper used for raising money or to sustain credit, as a check which represents no deposit in bank, or a bill of exchange not sanctioned by sale of goods; an accommodation check or bill.
Kite (n.) The brill.
Kite (v. i.) To raise money by "kites;" as, kiting transactions. See Kite, 6.
Kite (n.) The belly.
Kiteflying (n.) A mode of raising money, or sustaining one's credit, by the use of paper which is merely nominal; -- called also kiting.
Kiteflier (n.) See Kite, n., 6.
Kith (n.) Acquaintance; kindred.
Kithara (n.) See Cithara.
Kithe (v. t.) See Kythe.
Kitish (a.) Like or relating to a kite.
Kitling (n.) A young kitten; a whelp.
Kitte (imp.) of Kit to cut.
Kittel (v. t.) See Kittle, v. t.
Kitten (n.) A young cat.
Kittened (imp. & p. p.) of Kitten
Kittening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Kitten
Kitten (v. t. & i.) To bring forth young, as a cat; to bring forth, as kittens.
Kittenish (a.) Resembling a kitten; playful; as, a kittenish disposition.
Kittiwake (n.) A northern gull (Rissa tridactyla), inhabiting the coasts of Europe and America. It is white, with black tips to the wings, and has but three toes.
Kittle (v. i.) To bring forth young, as a cat; to kitten; to litter.
Kittle (v. t.) To tickle.
Kittle (a.) Ticklish; not easily managed; troublesome; difficult; variable.
Kittlish (a.) Ticklish; kittle.
Kittysol (n.) The Chinese paper parasol.
Kive (n.) A mash vat. See Keeve.
Kiver (v. t.) To cover.
Kiver (n.) A cover.
Kivikivies (pl. ) of Kiwikiwi
Kiwikiwies (pl. ) of Kiwikiwi
Kivikivi (n.) Alt. of Kiwikiwi
Kiwikiwi (n.) Any species of Apteryx, esp. A. australis; -- so called in imitation of its notes. Called also kiwi. See Apteryx.
Kjoekken moeddings () See Kitchen middens.
Klamaths (n. pl.) A collective name for the Indians of several tribes formerly living along the Klamath river, in California and Oregon, but now restricted to a reservation at Klamath Lake; -- called also Clamets and Hamati.
Kleeneboc (n.) (Zool.) An antelope (Cerphalopus pygmaeus), found in South Africa. It is of very small size, being but one foot high at shoulder. It is remarkable for its activity, and for its mild and timid disposition. Called also guevi, and pygmy antelope.
Kleptomania (n.) A propensity to steal, claimed to be irresistible. This does not constitute legal irresponsibility.
Kleptomaniac (n.) A person affected with kleptomania.
Klick (n. & v.) See Click.
Klicket (n.) A small postern or gate in a palisade, for the passage of sallying parties.
Klinkstone (n.) See Clinkstone.
Klinometer (n.) See Clinometer.
Klipdas (n.) Alt. of Klipdachs
Klipdachs (n.) A small mammal (Hyrax Capensis), found in South Africa. It is of about the size of a rabbit, and closely resembles the daman. Called also rock rabbit.
Klipfish (n.) Dried cod, exported from Norway.
Klipspringer (n.) A small, graceful South African antelope (Nanotragus oreotragus), which, like the chamois, springs from one crag to another with great agility; -- called also kainsi.
Kloof (n.) A glen; a ravine closed at its upper end.
Klopemania (n.) See Kleptomania.
Knabbed (imp. & p. p.) of Knab
Recordation (v. t.) Remembrance; recollection; also, a record.
Recorder (n.) One who records; specifically, a person whose official duty it is to make a record of writings or transactions.
Recorder (n.) The title of the chief judical officer of some cities and boroughs; also, of the chief justice of an East Indian settlement. The Recorder of London is judge of the Lord Mayor's Court, and one of the commissioners of the Central Criminal Court.
Recorder (n.) A kind of wind instrument resembling the flageolet.
Recordership (n.) The office of a recorder.
Recording (a.) Keeping a record or a register; as, a recording secretary; -- applied to numerous instruments with an automatic appliance which makes a record of their action; as, a recording gauge or telegraph.
Recorporification (n.) The act of investing again with a body; the state of being furnished anew with a body.
Recouch (v. i.) To retire again to a couch; to lie down again.
Recount (v. t.) To count or reckon again.
Recount (n.) A counting again, as of votes.
Recount (v.) To tell over; to relate in detail; to recite; to tell or narrate the particulars of; to rehearse; to enumerate; as, to recount one's blessings.
Recountment (n.) Recital.
Recoup (v. t.) Alt. of Recoupe
Recoupe (v. t.) To keep back rightfully (a part), as if by cutting off, so as to diminish a sum due; to take off (a part) from damages; to deduct; as, where a landlord recouped the rent of premises from damages awarded to the plaintiff for eviction.
Recoupe (v. t.) To get an equivalent or compensation for; as, to recoup money lost at the gaming table; to recoup one's losses in the share market.
Recoupe (v. t.) To reimburse; to indemnify; -- often used reflexively and in the passive.
Recouper (n.) One who recoups.
Recoupment (n.) The act of recouping.
Recourse (n.) A coursing back, or coursing again, along the line of a previous coursing; renewed course; return; retreat; recurence.
Recourse (n.) Recurrence in difficulty, perplexity, need, or the like; access or application for aid; resort.
Recourse (n.) Access; admittance.
Recourse (v. i.) To return; to recur.
Recourse (v. i.) To have recourse; to resort.
Recourseful (a.) Having recurring flow and ebb; moving alternately.
Recover (v. t.) To cover again.
Recovered (imp. & p. p.) of Recover
Recovering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recover
Recover (v. t.) To get or obtain again; to get renewed possession of; to win back; to regain.
Recover (v. t.) To make good by reparation; to make up for; to retrieve; to repair the loss or injury of; as, to recover lost time.
Recover (v. t.) To restore from sickness, faintness, or the like; to bring back to life or health; to cure; to heal.
Recover (v. t.) To overcome; to get the better of, -- as a state of mind or body.
Recover (v. t.) To rescue; to deliver.
Recover (v. t.) To gain by motion or effort; to obtain; to reach; to come to.
Recover (v. t.) To gain as a compensation; to obtain in return for injury or debt; as, to recover damages in trespass; to recover debt and costs in a suit at law; to obtain title to by judgement in a court of law; as, to recover lands in ejectment or common recovery; to gain by legal process; as, to recover judgement against a defendant.
Recover (v. i.) To regain health after sickness; to grow well; to be restored or cured; hence, to regain a former state or condition after misfortune, alarm, etc.; -- often followed by of or from; as, to recover from a state of poverty; to recover from fright.
Recover (v. i.) To make one's way; to come; to arrive.
Recover (v. i.) To obtain a judgement; to succeed in a lawsuit; as, the plaintiff has recovered in his suit.
Recover (n.) Recovery.
Recoverable (a.) Capable of being recovered or regained; capable of being brought back to a former condition, as from sickness, misfortune, etc.; obtainable from a debtor or possessor; as, the debt is recoverable; goods lost or sunk in the ocean are not recoverable.
Re coverance (n.) Recovery.
Recoveree (n.) The person against whom a judgment is obtained in common recovery.
Recoverer (n.) One who recovers.
Recoveror (n.) The demandant in a common recovery after judgment.
Recovery (n.) The act of recovering, regaining, or retaking possession.
Recovery (n.) Restoration from sickness, weakness, faintness, or the like; restoration from a condition of mistortune, of fright, etc.
Recovery (n.) The obtaining in a suit at law of a right to something by a verdict and judgment of court.
Recovery (n.) The getting, or gaining, of something not previously had.
Recovery (n.) In rowing, the act of regaining the proper position for making a new stroke.
Recreance (n.) Recreancy.
Recreancy (n.) The quality or state of being recreant.
Recreant (a.) Crying for mercy, as a combatant in the trial by battle; yielding; cowardly; mean-spirited; craven.
Recreant (a.) Apostate; false; unfaithful.
Recreant (n.) One who yields in combat, and begs for mercy; a mean-spirited, cowardly wretch.
Re-create (v. t.) To create or form anew.
Recreated (imp. & p. p.) of Recreate
Recreating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recreate
Recreate (v. t.) To give fresh life to; to reanimate; to revive; especially, to refresh after wearying toil or anxiety; to relieve; to cheer; to divert; to amuse; to gratify.
Recreate (v. i.) To take recreation.
Recreation (n.) The act of recreating, or the state of being recreated; refreshment of the strength and spirits after toil; amusement; diversion; sport; pastime.
Re-creation (n.) A forming anew; a new creation or formation.
Re-creative (a.) Creating anew; as, re-creative power.
Recreative (a.) Tending to recreate or refresh; recreating; giving new vigor or animation; reinvigorating; giving relief after labor or pain; amusing; diverting.
Recrement (n.) Superfluous matter separated from that which is useful; dross; scoria; as, the recrement of ore.
Recrement (n.) Excrement.
Recrement (n.) A substance secreted from the blood and again absorbed by it.
Recremental (a.) Recrementitious.
Recrementitial (a.) Of the nature of a recrement. See Recrement, 2 (b).
Recrementitious (a.) Of or pertaining to recrement; consisting of recrement or dross.
Recriminate (v. i.) To return one charge or accusation with another; to charge back fault or crime upon an accuser.
Recriminate (v. t.) To accuse in return.
Recrimination (n.) The act of recriminating; an accusation brought by the accused against the accuser; a counter accusation.
Recriminative (a.) Recriminatory.
Recriminator (n.) One who recriminates.
Recriminatory (a.) Having the quality of recrimination; retorting accusation; recriminating.
Recross (v. t.) To cross a second time.
Recrudency (n.) Recrudescence.
Recrudescence (n.) Alt. of Recrudescency
Recrudescency (n.) The state or condition of being recrudescent.
Recrudescency (n.) Increased severity of a disease after temporary remission.
Recrudescent (a.) Growing raw, sore, or painful again.
Recrudescent (a.) Breaking out again after temporary abatement or supression; as, a recrudescent epidemic.
Recruited (imp. & p. p.) of Recruit
Recruiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recruit
Recruit (v. t.) To repair by fresh supplies, as anything wasted; to remedy lack or deficiency in; as, food recruits the flesh; fresh air and exercise recruit the spirits.
Recruit (v. t.) Hence, to restore the wasted vigor of; to renew in strength or health; to reinvigorate.
Recruit (v. t.) To supply with new men, as an army; to fill up or make up by enlistment; as, he recruited two regiments; the army was recruited for a campaign; also, to muster; to enlist; as, he recruited fifty men.
Recruit (v. i.) To gain new supplies of anything wasted; to gain health, flesh, spirits, or the like; to recuperate; as, lean cattle recruit in fresh pastures.
Recruit (v. i.) To gain new supplies of men for military or other service; to raise or enlist new soldiers; to enlist troops.
Recruit (n.) A supply of anything wasted or exhausted; a reenforcement.
Recruit (n.) Specifically, a man enlisted for service in the army; a newly enlisted soldier.
Recruiter (n.) One who, or that which, recruits.
Recruitment (n.) The act or process of recruiting; especially, the enlistment of men for an army.
Recrystallization (n.) The process or recrystallizing.
Recrystallize (v. i. & t.) To crystallize again.
Rectal (a.) Of or pertaining to the rectum; in the region of the rectum.
Rectangle (n.) A four-sided figure having only right angles; a right-angled parallelogram.
Rectangle (a.) Rectangular.
Rectangled (a.) Rectangular.
Rectangular (a.) Right-angled; having one or more angles of ninety degrees.
Rectangularity (n.) The quality or condition of being rectangular, or right-angled.
Recti- () A combining form signifying straight; as, rectilineal, having straight lines; rectinerved.
Rectifiable (a.) Capable of being rectified; as, a rectifiable mistake.
Rectifiable (a.) Admitting, as a curve, of the construction of a straight l//e equal in length to any definite portion of the curve.
Rectification (n.) The act or operation of rectifying; as, the rectification of an error; the rectification of spirits.
Rectification (n.) The determination of a straight line whose length is equal a portion of a curve.
Rectificator (n.) That which rectifies or refines; esp., a part of a distilling apparatus in which the more volatile portions are separated from the less volatile by the process of evaporation and condensation; a rectifier.
Rectifier (n.) One who, or that which, rectifies.
Rectifier (n.) Specifically: (a) (Naut.) An instrument used for determining and rectifying the variations of the compass on board ship. (b) (Chem.) A rectificator.
Rectified (imp. & p. p.) of Rectify
Rectifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rectify
Rectify (v. t.) To make or set right; to correct from a wrong, erroneous, or false state; to amend; as, to rectify errors, mistakes, or abuses; to rectify the will, the judgment, opinions; to rectify disorders.
Rectify (v. t.) To refine or purify by repeated distillation or sublimation, by which the fine parts of a substance are separated from the grosser; as, to rectify spirit of wine.
Rectify (v. t.) To produce ( as factitious gin or brandy) by redistilling low wines or ardent spirits (whisky, rum, etc.), flavoring substances, etc., being added.
Rectilineal (a.) Alt. of Rectilinear
Rectilinear (a.) Straight; consisting of a straight line or lines; bounded by straight lines; as, a rectineal angle; a rectilinear figure or course.
Rectilinearity (n.) The quality or state of being rectilinear.
Rectilineous (a.) Rectilinear.
Rectinerved (a.) Having the veins or nerves straight; -- said of leaves.
Rection (n.) See Government, n., 7.
Rectirostral (a.) Having a straight beak.
Rectiserial (a.) Arranged in exactly vertical ranks, as the leaves on stems of many kinds; -- opposed to curviserial.
Rectitis (n.) Proctitis.
Rectitude (n.) Straightness.
Rectitude (n.) Rightness of principle or practice; exact conformity to truth, or to the rules prescribed for moral conduct, either by divine or human laws; uprightness of mind; uprightness; integrity; honesty; justice.
Rectitude (n.) Right judgment.
Recto- () A combining form indicating connection with, or relation to, the rectum; as, recto-vesical.
Recto (n.) A writ of right.
Recto (n.) The right-hand page; -- opposed to verso.
Rector (n.) A ruler or governor.
Rector (n.) A clergyman who has the charge and cure of a parish, and has the tithes, etc.; the clergyman of a parish where the tithes are not impropriate. See the Note under Vicar.
Rector (n.) A clergyman in charge of a parish.
Rector (n.) The head master of a public school.
Rector (n.) The chief elective officer of some universities, as in France and Scotland; sometimes, the head of a college; as, the Rector of Exeter College, or of Lincoln College, at Oxford.
Rector (n.) The superior officer or chief of a convent or religious house; and among the Jesuits the superior of a house that is a seminary or college.
Rectoral (a.) Pertaining to a rector or governor.
Rectorate (n.) The office, rank, or station of a rector; rectorship.
Rectoress (n.) A governess; a rectrix.
Rectoress (n.) The wife of a rector.
Rectorial (a.) Pertaining to a rector or a rectory; rectoral.
Rectorship (n.) Government; guidance.
Rectorship (n.) The office or rank of a rector; rectorate.
Rectories (pl. ) of Rectory
Rectory (n.) The province of a rector; a parish church, parsonage, or spiritual living, with all its rights, tithes, and glebes.
Rectory (n.) A rector's mansion; a parsonage house.
Recto-uterine (a.) Of or pertaining to both the rectum and the uterus.
Rectovaginal (a.) Of or pertaining to both the rectum and the vagina.
Recto-vesical (a.) Of or pertaining to both the rectum and the bladder.
Rectress (n.) A rectoress.
Rectrices (pl. ) of Rectrix
Rectrix (n.) A governess; a rectoress.
Rectrix (n.) One of the quill feathers of the tail of a bird.
Rectum (n.) The terminal part of the large intestine; -- so named because supposed by the old anatomists to be straight. See Illust. under Digestive.
Recti (pl. ) of Rectus
Rectus (n.) A straight muscle; as, the recti of the eye.
Recubation (n.) Recumbence.
Recule (v. i.) To recoil.
Recule (n.) Alt. of Reculement
Reculement (n.) Recoil.
Recumb (v. i.) To lean; to recline; to repose.
Recumbence (n.) The act of leaning, resting, or reclining; the state of being recumbent.
Recumbency (n.) Recumbence.
Recumbent (a.) Leaning; reclining; lying; as, the recumbent posture of the Romans at their meals. Hence, figuratively; Resting; inactive; idle.
Recuperable (a.) Recoverable.
Recuperated (imp. &. p. p.) of Recuperate
Recuperating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recuperate
Recuperate (v. i.) To recover health; to regain strength; to convalesce.
Recuperate (v. t.) To recover; to regain; as, to recuperate the health or strength.
Recuperation (n..) Recovery, as of anything lost, especially of the health or strength.
Recuperative (a.) Alt. of Recuperatory
Recuperatory (a.) Of or pertaining to recuperation; tending to recovery.
Recuperator (n.) Same as Regenerator.
Recurred (imp. & p. p.) of Recur
Recurring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Recur
Recur (v. i.) To come back; to return again or repeatedly; to come again to mind.
Recur (v. i.) To occur at a stated interval, or according to some regular rule; as, the fever will recur to-night.
Recur (v. i.) To resort; to have recourse; to go for help.
Recure (v. t.) To arrive at; to reach; to attain.
Recure (v. t.) To recover; to regain; to repossess.
Recure (v. t.) To restore, as from weariness, sickness; or the like; to repair.
Recure (v. t.) To be a cure for; to remedy.
Recure (n.) Cure; remedy; recovery.
Recureless (a.) Incapable of cure.
Recurrence (n.) Alt. of Recurrency
Recurrency (n.) The act of recurring, or state of being recurrent; return; resort; recourse.
Recurrent (a.) Returning from time to time; recurring; as, recurrent pains.
Recurrent (a.) Running back toward its origin; as, a recurrent nerve or artery.
Recursant (a.) Displayed with the back toward the spectator; -- said especially of an eagle.
Recursion (n.) The act of recurring; return.
Recurvate (a.) Recurved.
Recurvate (v. t.) To bend or curve back; to recurve.
Recurvation (n.) The act of recurving, or the state of being recurved; a bending or flexure backward.
Recurve (v. t.) To curve in an opposite or unusual direction; to bend back or down.
Recurved (a.) Curved in an opposite or uncommon direction; bent back; as, a bird with a recurved bill; flowers with recurved petals.
Recurviroster (n.) A bird whose beak bends upward, as the avocet.
Recurvirostral (a.) Having the beak bent upwards.
Recurvity (n.) Recurvation.
Recurvous (a.) Recurved.
Recusancy (n.) The state of being recusant; nonconformity.
Recusant (a.) Obstinate in refusal; specifically, in English history, refusing to acknowledge the supremacy of the king in the churc, or to conform to the established rites of the church; as, a recusant lord.
Recusant (n.) One who is obstinate in refusal; one standing out stubbornly against general practice or opinion.
Recusant (n.) A person who refuses to acknowledge the supremacy of the king in matters of religion; as, a Roman Catholic recusant, who acknowledges the supremacy of the pope.
Recusant (n.) One who refuses communion with the Church of England; a nonconformist.
Recusation (n.) Refusal.
Recusation (n.) The act of refusing a judge or challenging that he shall not try the cause, on account of his supposed partiality.
Recusative (a.) Refusing; denying; negative.
Recuse (v. t.) To refuse or reject, as a judge; to challenge that the judge shall not try the cause.
Recussion (n.) The act of beating or striking back.
Red () . imp. & p. p. of Read.
Red (v. t.) To put on order; to make tidy; also, to free from entanglement or embarrassement; -- generally with up; as, to red up a house.
Red (superl.) Of the color of blood, or of a tint resembling that color; of the hue of that part of the rainbow, or of the solar spectrum, which is furthest from the violet part.
Red (n.) The color of blood, or of that part of the spectrum farthest from violet, or a tint resembling these.
Red (n.) A red pigment.
Red (n.) An abbreviation for Red Republican. See under Red, a.
Red (a.) The menses.
Redact (v. t.) To reduce to form, as literary matter; to digest and put in shape (matter for publication); to edit.
Redacteur (n.) See Redactor.
Redaction (n.) The act of redacting; work produced by redacting; a digest.
Redactor (n.) One who redacts; one who prepares matter for publication; an editor.
Redan (n.) A work having two parapets whose faces unite so as to form a salient angle toward the enemy.
Redan (n.) A step or vertical offset in a wall on uneven ground, to keep the parts level.
Redargued (imp. & p. p.) of Redargue
Redarguing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Redargue
Redargue (v. t.) To disprove; to refute; toconfute; to reprove; to convict.
Redargution (n.) The act of redarguing; refutation.
Redargutory (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, redargution; refutatory.
Redback (n.) The dunlin.
Redbelly (n.) The char.
Redbird (n.) The cardinal bird.
Redbird (n.) The summer redbird (Piranga rubra).
Redbird (n.) The scarlet tanager. See Tanager.
Redbreast (n.) The European robin.
Redbreast (n.) The American robin. See Robin.
Redbreast (n.) The knot, or red-breasted snipe; -- called also robin breast, and robin snipe. See Knot.
Redbreast (n.) The long-eared pondfish. See Pondfish.
Redbud (n.) A small ornamental leguminous tree of the American species of the genus Cercis. See Judas tree, under Judas.
Redcap (n.) The European goldfinch.
Redcap (n.) A specter having long teeth, popularly supposed to haunt old castles in Scotland.
Redcoat (n.) One who wears a red coat; specifically, a red-coated British soldier.
Redde () obs. imp. of Read, or Rede.
Reddened (imp. & p. p.) of Redden
Reddening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Redden
Redden (a.) To make red or somewhat red; to give a red color to.
Redden (v. i.) To grow or become red; to blush.
Reddendum (n.) A clause in a deed by which some new thing is reserved out of what had been granted before; the clause by which rent is reserved in a lease.
Reddish (a.) Somewhat red; moderately red.
Reddition (n.) Restoration: restitution: surrender.
Reddition (n.) Explanation; representation.
Redditive (a.) Answering to an interrogative or inquiry; conveying a reply; as, redditive words.
Reddle (n.) Red chalk. See under Chalk.
Reddour (n.) Rigor; violence.
Rede (v. t.) To advise or counsel.
Rede (v. t.) To interpret; to explain.
Rede (n.) Advice; counsel; suggestion.
Rede (n.) A word or phrase; a motto; a proverb; a wise saw.
Redeemed (imp. & p. p.) of Redeem
Redeeming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Redeem
Redeem (v. t.) To purchase back; to regain possession of by payment of a stipulated price; to repurchase.
Redeem (v. t.) To recall, as an estate, or to regain, as mortgaged property, by paying what may be due by force of the mortgage.
Redeem (v. t.) To regain by performing the obligation or condition stated; to discharge the obligation mentioned in, as a promissory note, bond, or other evidence of debt; as, to redeem bank notes with coin.
Redeem (v. t.) To ransom, liberate, or rescue from captivity or bondage, or from any obligation or liability to suffer or to be forfeited, by paying a price or ransom; to ransom; to rescue; to recover; as, to redeem a captive, a pledge, and the like.
Redeem (v. t.) Hence, to rescue and deliver from the bondage of sin and the penalties of God's violated law.
Redeem (v. t.) To make good by performing fully; to fulfill; as, to redeem one's promises.
Redeem (v. t.) To pay the penalty of; to make amends for; to serve as an equivalent or offset for; to atone for; to compensate; as, to redeem an error.
Redeemability (n.) Redeemableness.
Redeemable (a.) Capable of being redeemed; subject to repurchase; held under conditions permitting redemption; as, a pledge securing the payment of money is redeemable.
Redeemable (a.) Subject to an obligation of redemtion; conditioned upon a promise of redemtion; payable; due; as, bonds, promissory notes, etc. , redeemabble in gold, or in current money, or four months after date.
Redeemableness (n.) The quality or state of being redeemable; redeemability.
Redeemer (n.) One who redeems.
Redeemer (n.) Specifically, the Savior of the world, Jesus Christ.
Redeless (a.) Without rede or counsel.
Redeliberate (v. t. & i.) To deliberate again; to reconsider.
Redeliver (v. t.) To deliver or give back; to return.
Redeliver (v. t.) To deliver or liberate a second time or again.
Redeliver (v. t.) To report; to deliver the answer of.
Redeliverance (n.) A second deliverance.
Redelivery (n.) Act of delivering back.
Redelivery (n.) A second or new delivery or liberation.
Redemand (v. t.) To demand back; to demand again.
Redemand (n.) A demanding back; a second or renewed demand.
Redemise (v. t.) To demise back; to convey or transfer back, as an estate.
Redemise (n.) The transfer of an estate back to the person who demised it; reconveyance; as, the demise and redemise of an estate. See under Demise.
Redemonstrate (v. t.) To demonstrate again, or anew.
Redemptible (a.) Redeemable.
Re-demption (n.) The act of redeeming, or the state of being redeemed; repurchase; ransom; release; rescue; deliverance; as, the redemption of prisoners taken in war; the redemption of a ship and cargo.
Re-demption (n.) The liberation of an estate from a mortgage, or the taking back of property mortgaged, upon performance of the terms or conditions on which it was conveyed; also, the right of redeeming and reentering upon an estate mortgaged. See Equity of redemption, under Equity.
Re-demption (n.) Performance of the obligation stated in a note, bill, bond, or other evidence of debt, by making payment to the holder.
Re-demption (n.) The procuring of God's favor by the sufferings and death of Christ; the ransom or deliverance of sinners from the bondage of sin and the penalties of God's violated law.
Redemptionary (n.) One who is, or may be, redeemed.
Redemptioner (n.) One who redeems himself, as from debt or servitude.
Redemptioner (n.) Formerly, one who, wishing to emigrate from Europe to America, sold his services for a stipulated time to pay the expenses of his passage.
Redemptionist (n.) A monk of an order founded in 1197; -- so called because the order was especially devoted to the redemption of Christians held in captivity by the Mohammedans. Called also Trinitarian.
Redemptive (a.) Serving or tending to redeem; redeeming; as, the redemptive work of Christ.
Redemptorist (n.) One of the Congregation of the Most Holy Redeemer, founded in Naples in 1732 by St. Alphonsus Maria de Liquori. It was introduced onto the United States in 1832 at Detroit. The Fathers of the Congregation devote themselves to preaching to the neglected, esp. in missions and retreats, and are forbidden by their rule to engage in the instruction of youth.
Redemptory (a.) Paid for ransom; serving to redeem.
Redempture (n.) Redemption.
Redented (a.) Formed like the teeth of a saw; indented.
Redeposit (v. t.) To deposit again.
Redescend (v. i.) To descend again.
Redeye (n.) The rudd.
Redeye (n.) Same as Redfish (d).
Redeye (n.) The goggle-eye, or fresh-water rock bass.
Redfin (n.) A small North American dace (Minnilus cornutus, or Notropis megalops). The male, in the breeding season, has bright red fins. Called also red dace, and shiner. Applied also to Notropis ardens, of the Mississippi valley.
Redfinch (n.) The European linnet.
Redfish (n.) The blueback salmon of the North Pacific; -- called also nerka. See Blueback (b).
Redfish (n.) The rosefish.
Redfish (n.) A large California labroid food fish (Trochocopus pulcher); -- called also fathead.
Redfish (n.) The red bass, red drum, or drumfish. See the Note under Drumfish.
Red-gum (n.) An eruption of red pimples upon the face, neck, and arms, in early infancy; tooth rash; strophulus.
Red-gum (n.) A name of rust on grain. See Rust.
Red-hand (a. / adv.) Alt. of Red-handed
Red-handed (a. / adv.) Having hands red with blood; in the very act, as if with red or bloody hands; -- said of a person taken in the act of homicide; hence, fresh from the commission of crime; as, he was taken red-hand or red-handed.
Redhead (n.) A person having red hair.
Redhead (n.) An American duck (Aythya Americana) highly esteemed as a game bird. It is closely allied to the canvasback, but is smaller and its head brighter red. Called also red-headed duck. American poachard, grayback, and fall duck. See Illust. under Poachard.
Redhead (n.) The red-headed woodpecker. See Woodpecker.
Redhead (n.) A kind of milkweed (Asclepias Curassavica) with red flowers. It is used in medicine.
Redhibition (n.) The annulling of a sale, and the return by the buyer of the article sold, on account of some defect.
Redhibitory (a.) Of or pertaining to redhibition; as, a redhibitory action or fault.
Redhoop (n.) The male of the European bullfinch.
Redhorn (n.) Any species of a tribe of butterflies (Fugacia) including the common yellow species and the cabbage butterflies. The antennae are usually red.
Red-hot (a.) Red with heat; heated to redness; as, red-hot iron; red-hot balls. Hence, figuratively, excited; violent; as, a red-hot radical.
Rediae (pl. ) of Redia
Redias (pl. ) of Redia
Redia (n.) A kind of larva, or nurse, which is prroduced within the sporocyst of certain trematodes by asexual generation. It in turn produces, in the same way, either another generation of rediae, or else cercariae within its own body. Called also proscolex, and nurse. See Illustration in Appendix.
Redient (a.) Returning.
Redigest (v. t.) To digest, or reduce to form, a second time.
Rediminish (v. t.) To diminish again.
Redingote (n.) A long plain double-breasted outside coat for women.
Redintegrate (a.) Restored to wholeness or a perfect state; renewed.
Redintegrate (v. t.) To make whole again; a renew; to restore to integrity or soundness.
Redintegration (n.) Restoration to a whole or sound state; renewal; renovation.
Redintegration (n.) Restoration of a mixed body or matter to its former nature and state.
Redintegration (n.) The law that objects which have been previously combined as part of a single mental state tend to recall or suggest one another; -- adopted by many philosophers to explain the phenomena of the association of ideas.
Redirect (a.) Applied to the examination of a witness, by the party calling him, after the cross-examination.
Redisburse (v. t.) To disburse anew; to give, or pay, back.
Rediscover (v. t.) To discover again.
Redispose (v. t.) To dispose anew or again; to readjust; to rearrange.
Redisseize (v. t.) To disseize anew, or a second time.
Redisseizin (n.) A disseizin by one who once before was adjudged to have dassezed the same person of the same lands, etc.; also, a writ which lay in such a case.
Redisseizor (n.) One who redisseizes.
Redissolve (v. t.) To dissolve again.
Redistill (v. t.) To distill again.
Redistrainer (n.) One who distrains again.
Redistribute (v. t.) To distribute again.
Redistrict (v. t.) To divide into new districts.
Redition (n.) Act of returning; return.
Redivide (v. t.) To divide anew.
Redleg (n.) Alt. of Redlegs
Redlegs (n.) The redshank.
Redlegs (n.) The turnstone.
Red-letter (a.) Of or pertaining to a red letter; marked by red letters.
Redly (adv.) In a red manner; with redness.
Redmouth (n.) Any one of several species of marine food fishes of the genus Diabasis, or Haemulon, of the Southern United States, having the inside of the mouth bright red. Called also flannelmouth, and grunt.
Redness (n.) The quality or state of being red; red color.
Redolence (n.) Alt. of Redolency
Redolency (n.) The quality of being redolent; sweetness of scent; pleasant odor; fragrance.
Redolent (a.) Diffusing odor or fragrance; spreading sweet scent; scented; odorous; smelling; -- usually followed by of.
Redouble (v. t.) To double again or repeatedly; to increase by continued or repeated additions; to augment greatly; to multiply.
Redouble (v. i.) To become greatly or repeatedly increased; to be multiplied; to be greatly augmented; as, the noise redoubles.
Redoubt (n.) A small, and usually a roughly constructed, fort or outwork of varying shape, commonly erected for a temporary purpose, and without flanking defenses, -- used esp. in fortifying tops of hills and passes, and positions in hostile territory.
Redoubt (n.) In permanent works, an outwork placed within another outwork. See F and i in Illust. of Ravelin.
Redoubt (v. t.) To stand in dread of; to regard with fear; to dread.
Redoubtable (a.) Formidable; dread; terrible to foes; as, a redoubtable hero; hence, valiant; -- often in contempt or burlesque.
Redoubted (a.) Formidable; dread.
Redoubting (n.) Reverence; honor.
Redounded (imp. & p. p.) of Redound
Redounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Redound
Redound (v. i.) To roll back, as a wave or flood; to be sent or driven back; to flow back, as a consequence or effect; to conduce; to contribute; to result.
Redound (v. i.) To be in excess; to remain over and above; to be redundant; to overflow.
Redound (n.) The coming back, as of consequence or effect; result; return; requital.
Redound (n.) Rebound; reverberation.
Redowa (n.) A Bohemian dance of two kinds, one in triple time, like a waltz, the other in two-four time, like a polka. The former is most in use.
Redpole (n.) Same as Redpoll.
Redpoll (n.) Any one of several species of small northern finches of the genus Acanthis (formerly Aegiothus), native of Europe and America. The adults have the crown red or rosy. The male of the most common species (A. linarius) has also the breast and rump rosy. Called also redpoll linnet. See Illust. under Linnet.
Redpoll (n.) The common European linnet.
Redpoll (n.) The American redpoll warbler (Dendroica palmarum).
Redraft (v. t.) To draft or draw anew.
Redraft (n.) A second draft or copy.
Redraft (n.) A new bill of exchange which the holder of a protected bill draws on the drawer or indorsers, in order to recover the amount of the protested bill with costs and charges.
Redrew (imp.) of Redraw
Redrawn (p. p.) of Redraw
Redrawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Redraw
Redraw (v. t.) To draw again; to make a second draft or copy of; to redraft.
Redraw (v. i.) To draw a new bill of exchange, as the holder of a protested bill, on the drawer or indorsers.
Redress (v. t.) To dress again.
Redress (v. t.) To put in order again; to set right; to emend; to revise.
Redress (v. t.) To set right, as a wrong; to repair, as an injury; to make amends for; to remedy; to relieve from.
Redress (v. t.) To make amends or compensation to; to relieve of anything unjust or oppressive; to bestow relief upon.
Redress (n.) The act of redressing; a making right; reformation; correction; amendment.
Redress (n.) A setting right, as of wrong, injury, or opression; as, the redress of grievances; hence, relief; remedy; reparation; indemnification.
Redress (n.) One who, or that which, gives relief; a redresser.
Redressal (n.) Redress.
Redresser (n.) One who redresses.
Redressible (a.) Such as may be redressed.
Redressive (a.) Tending to redress.
Redressless (a.) Not having redress; such as can not be redressed; irremediable.
Redressment (n.) The act of redressing; redress.
Red-riband (n.) The European red band fish, or fireflame. See Rend fish.
Redroot (n.) A name of several plants having red roots, as the New Jersey tea (see under Tea), the gromwell, the bloodroot, and the Lachnanthes tinctoria, an endogenous plant found in sandy swamps from Rhode Island to Florida.
Redsear (v. i.) To be brittle when red-hot; to be red-short.
Redshank (n.) A common Old World limicoline bird (Totanus calidris), having the legs and feet pale red. The spotted redshank (T. fuscus) is larger, and has orange-red legs. Called also redshanks, redleg, and clee.
Redshank (n.) The fieldfare.
Redshank (n.) A bare-legged person; -- a contemptuous appellation formerly given to the Scotch Highlanders, in allusion to their bare legs.
Red-short (a.) Hot-short; brittle when red-hot; -- said of certain kinds of iron.
Redskin (n.) A common appellation for a North American Indian; -- so called from the color of the skin.
Redstart (n.) A small, handsome European singing bird (Ruticilla phoenicurus), allied to the nightingale; -- called also redtail, brantail, fireflirt, firetail. The black redstart is P.tithys. The name is also applied to several other species of Ruticilla amnd allied genera, native of India.
Redstart (n.) An American fly-catching warbler (Setophaga ruticilla). The male is black, with large patches of orange-red on the sides, wings, and tail. The female is olive, with yellow patches.
Redstreak (n.) A kind of apple having the skin streaked with red and yellow, -- a favorite English cider apple.
Redstreak (n.) Cider pressed from redstreak apples.
Redtail (n.) The red-tailed hawk.
Redtail (n.) The European redstart.
Red-tailed (a.) Having a red tail.
Red-tape (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, official formality. See Red tape, under Red, a.
Red-tapism (n.) Strict adherence to official formalities.
Red-tapist (n.) One who is tenacious of a strict adherence to official formalities.
Redthroat (n.) A small Australian singing bird (Phyrrholaemus brunneus). The upper parts are brown, the center of the throat red.
Redtop (n.) A kind of grass (Agrostis vulgaris) highly valued in the United States for pasturage and hay for cattle; -- called also English grass, and in some localities herd's grass. See Illustration in Appendix. The tall redtop is Triodia seslerioides.
Redub (v. t.) To refit; to repair, or make reparation for; hence, to repay or requite.
Reduced (imp. & p. p.) of Reduce
Reducing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reduce
Reduce (n.) To bring or lead back to any former place or condition.
Reduce (n.) To bring to any inferior state, with respect to rank, size, quantity, quality, value, etc.; to diminish; to lower; to degrade; to impair; as, to reduce a sergeant to the ranks; to reduce a drawing; to reduce expenses; to reduce the intensity of heat.
Reduce (n.) To bring to terms; to humble; to conquer; to subdue; to capture; as, to reduce a province or a fort.
Reduce (n.) To bring to a certain state or condition by grinding, pounding, kneading, rubbing, etc.; as, to reduce a substance to powder, or to a pasty mass; to reduce fruit, wood, or paper rags, to pulp.
Reduce (n.) To bring into a certain order, arrangement, classification, etc.; to bring under rules or within certain limits of descriptions and terms adapted to use in computation; as, to reduce animals or vegetables to a class or classes; to reduce a series of observations in astronomy; to reduce language to rules.
Reduce (n.) To change, as numbers, from one denomination into another without altering their value, or from one denomination into others of the same value; as, to reduce pounds, shillings, and pence to pence, or to reduce pence to pounds; to reduce days and hours to minutes, or minutes to days and hours.
Reduce (n.) To change the form of a quantity or expression without altering its value; as, to reduce fractions to their lowest terms, to a common denominator, etc.
Reduce (n.) To bring to the metallic state by separating from impurities; hence, in general, to remove oxygen from; to deoxidize; to combine with, or to subject to the action of, hydrogen; as, ferric iron is reduced to ferrous iron; or metals are reduced from their ores; -- opposed to oxidize.
Reduce (n.) To restore to its proper place or condition, as a displaced organ or part; as, to reduce a dislocation, a fracture, or a hernia.
Reducement (n.) Reduction.
Reducent (a.) Tending to reduce.
Reducent (n.) A reducent agent.
Reducer (n.) One who, or that which, reduces.
Reducible (a.) Capable of being reduced.
Reducibleness (n.) Quality of being reducible.
Reducing () a & n. from Reduce.
Reduct (v. t..) To reduce.
Reductibility (n.) The quality of being reducible; reducibleness.
Reduction (n.) The act of reducing, or state of being reduced; conversion to a given state or condition; diminution; conquest; as, the reduction of a body to powder; the reduction of things to order; the reduction of the expenses of government; the reduction of a rebellious province.
Reduction (n.) The act or process of reducing. See Reduce, v. t., 6. and To reduce an equation, To reduce an expression, under Reduce, v. t.
Reduction (v. t.) The correction of observations for known errors of instruments, etc.
Reduction (v. t.) The preparation of the facts and measurements of observations in order to deduce a general result.
Reduction (v. t.) The process of making a copy of something, as a figure, design, or draught, on a smaller scale, preserving the proper proportions.
Reduction (v. t.) The bringing of a syllogism in one of the so-called imperfect modes into a mode in the first figure.
Reduction (v. t.) The act, process, or result of reducing; as, the reduction of iron from its ores; the reduction of aldehyde from alcohol.
Reduction (v. t.) The operation of restoring a dislocated or fractured part to its former place.
Reductive (a.) Tending to reduce; having the power or effect of reducing.
Reductive (n.) A reductive agent.
Reductively (adv.) By reduction; by consequence.
Reduit (n.) A central or retired work within any other work.
Redundance (n.) Alt. of Redundancy
Redundancy (n.) The quality or state of being redundant; superfluity; superabundance; excess.
Redundancy (n.) That which is redundant or in excess; anything superfluous or superabundant.
Redundancy (n.) Surplusage inserted in a pleading which may be rejected by the court without impairing the validity of what remains.
Redundant (a.) Exceeding what is natural or necessary; superabundant; exuberant; as, a redundant quantity of bile or food.
Redundant (a.) Using more worrds or images than are necessary or useful; pleonastic.
Redundantly (adv.) In a refundant manner.
Reduplicate (a.) Double; doubled; reduplicative; repeated.
Reduplicate (a.) Valvate with the margins curved outwardly; -- said of the /stivation of certain flowers.
Reduplicate (v. t.) To redouble; to multiply; to repeat.
Reduplicate (v. t.) To repeat the first letter or letters of (a word). See Reduplication, 3.
Reduplication (n.) The act of doubling, or the state of being doubled.
Reduplication (n.) A figure in which the first word of a verse is the same as the last word of the preceding verse.
Reduplication (n.) The doubling of a stem or syllable (more or less modified), with the effect of changing the time expressed, intensifying the meaning, or making the word more imitative; also, the syllable thus added; as, L. tetuli; poposci.
Reduplicative (a.) Double; formed by reduplication; reduplicate.
Reduvid (n.) Any hemipterous insect of the genus Redivius, or family Reduvidae. They live by sucking the blood of other insects, and some species also attack man.
Redweed (n.) The red poppy (Papaver Rhoeas).
Redwing (n.) A European thrush (Turdus iliacus). Its under wing coverts are orange red. Called also redwinged thrush. (b) A North American passerine bird (Agelarius ph/niceus) of the family Icteridae. The male is black, with a conspicuous patch of bright red, bordered with orange, on each wing. Called also redwinged blackbird, red-winged troupial, marsh blackbird, and swamp blackbird.
Redwithe (n.) A west Indian climbing shrub (Combretum Jacquini) with slender reddish branchlets.
Redwood (n.) A gigantic coniferous tree (Sequoia sempervirens) of California, and its light and durable reddish timber. See Sequoia.
Redwood (n.) An East Indian dyewood, obtained from Pterocarpus santalinus, Caesalpinia Sappan, and several other trees.
Ree (n.) See Rei.
Ree (v. t.) To riddle; to sift; to separate or throw off.
Reebok (n.) The peele.
Reecho (v. t.) To echo back; to reverberate again; as, the hills reecho the roar of cannon.
Reecho (v. i.) To give echoes; to return back, or be reverberated, as an echo; to resound; to be resonant.
Reecho (n.) The echo of an echo; a repeated or second echo.
Reechy (a.) Smoky; reeky; hence, begrimed with dirt.
Reed (a.) Red.
Reed (v. & n.) Same as Rede.
Reed (n.) The fourth stomach of a ruminant; rennet.
Reed (n.) A name given to many tall and coarse grasses or grasslike plants, and their slender, often jointed, stems, such as the various kinds of bamboo, and especially the common reed of Europe and North America (Phragmites communis).
Reed (n.) A musical instrument made of the hollow joint of some plant; a rustic or pastoral pipe.
Reed (n.) An arrow, as made of a reed.
Reed (n.) Straw prepared for thatching a roof.
Reed (n.) A small piece of cane or wood attached to the mouthpiece of certain instruments, and set in vibration by the breath. In the clarinet it is a single fiat reed; in the oboe and bassoon it is double, forming a compressed tube.
Reed (n.) One of the thin pieces of metal, the vibration of which produce the tones of a melodeon, accordeon, harmonium, or seraphine; also attached to certain sets or registers of pipes in an organ.
Reed (n.) A frame having parallel flat stripe of metal or reed, between which the warp threads pass, set in the swinging lathe or batten of a loom for beating up the weft; a sley. See Batten.
Reed (n.) A tube containing the train of powder for igniting the charge in blasting.
Reed (n.) Same as Reeding.
Reedbird (n.) The bobolink.
Reedbird (n.) One of several small Asiatic singing birds of the genera Sch/nicola and Eurycercus; -- called also reed babbler.
Reedbuck (n.) See Rietboc.
Reeded (a.) Civered with reeds; reedy.
Reeded (a.) Formed with channels and ridges like reeds.
Reeden (a.) Consisting of a reed or reeds.
Reedification (n.) The act reedifying; the state of being reedified.
Reedify (v. t.) To edify anew; to build again after destruction.
Reeding (n.) A small convex molding; a reed (see Illust. (i) of Molding); one of several set close together to decorate a surface; also, decoration by means of reedings; -- the reverse of fluting.
Reeding (n.) The nurling on the edge of a coin; -- commonly called milling.
Reedless (a.) Destitute of reeds; as, reedless banks.
Reedling (n.) The European bearded titmouse (Panurus biarmicus); -- called also reed bunting, bearded pinnock, and lesser butcher bird.
Reed-mace (n.) The cat-tail.
Reedwork (n.) A collective name for the reed stops of an organ.
Reedy (a.) Abounding with reeds; covered with reeds.
Reedy (a.) Having the quality of reed in tone, that is, ///// and thin^ as some voices.
Reef (n.) A chain or range of rocks lying at or near the surface of the water. See Coral reefs, under Coral.
Reef (n.) A large vein of auriferous quartz; -- so called in Australia. Hence, any body of rock yielding valuable ore.
Reef (v. t.) That part of a sail which is taken in or let out by means of the reef points, in order to adapt the size of the sail to the force of the wind.
Reefed (imp. & p. p.) of Reef
Reefing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reef
Reef (v. t.) To reduce the extent of (as a sail) by roiling or folding a certain portion of it and making it fast to the yard or spar.
Reef-band (n.) A piece of canvas sewed across a sail to strengthen it in the part where the eyelet holes for reefing are made.
Reefer (n.) One who reefs; -- a name often given to midshipmen.
Reefer (n.) A close-fitting lacket or short coat of thick cloth.
Reefing (n.) The process of taking in a reef.
Reefy (a.) Full of reefs or rocks.
Reek (n.) A rick.
Reek (n.) Vapor; steam; smoke; fume.
Reeked (imp. & p. p.) of Reek
Reeking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reek
Reek (v. i.) To emit vapor, usually that which is warm and moist; to be full of fumes; to steam; to smoke; to exhale.
Reeky (a.) Soiled with smoke or steam; smoky; foul.
Reeky (a.) Emitting reek.
Reel (n.) A lively dance of the Highlanders of Scotland; also, the music to the dance; -- often called Scotch reel.
Reel (n.) A frame with radial arms, or a kind of spool, turning on an axis, on which yarn, threads, lines, or the like, are wound; as, a log reel, used by seamen; an angler's reel; a garden reel.
Reel (n.) A machine on which yarn is wound and measured into lays and hanks, -- for cotton or linen it is fifty-four inches in circuit; for worsted, thirty inches.
Reel (n.) A device consisting of radial arms with horizontal stats, connected with a harvesting machine, for holding the stalks of grain in position to be cut by the knives.
Reeled (imp. & p. p.) of Reel
Reeling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reel
Reel (v. t.) To roll.
Reel (v. t.) To wind upon a reel, as yarn or thread.
Reel (v. i.) To incline, in walking, from one side to the other; to stagger.
Reel (v. i.) To have a whirling sensation; to be giddy.
Reel (n.) The act or motion of reeling or staggering; as, a drunken reel.
Reelect (v. t.) To elect again; as, to reelect the former governor.
Reelection (n.) Election a second time, or anew; as, the reelection of a former chief.
Reeler (n.) One who reels.
Reeler (n.) The grasshopper warbler; -- so called from its note.
Reeligible (a.) Eligible again; capable of reelection; as, reeligible to the same office.
Reem (n.) The Hebrew name of a horned wild animal, probably the Urus.
Reem (v. t.) To open (the seams of a vessel's planking) for the purpose of calking them.
Reembark (v. t. & i.) To put, or go, on board a vessel again; to embark again.
Reembarkation (n.) A putting, or going, on board a vessel again.
Reembody (v. t.) To embody again.
Reembrace (v. i.) To embrace again.
Reemerge (v. i.) To emerge again.
Reemergence (n.) Act of reemerging.
Reenact (v. t.) To enact again.
Reenaction (n.) The act of reenacting; the state of being reenacted.
Reenactment (n.) The enacting or passing of a law a second time; the renewal of a law.
Reencourage (v. t.) To encourage again.
Reendow (v. t.) To endow again.
Reenforce (v. t.) To strengthen with new force, assistance, material, or support; as, to reenforce an argument; to reenforce a garment; especially, to strengthen with additional troops, as an army or a fort, or with additional ships, as a fleet.
Reenforce (v.) Something which reenforces or strengthens.
Reenforce (v.) That part of a cannon near the breech which is thicker than the rest of the piece, so as better to resist the force of the exploding powder. See Illust. of Cannon.
Reenforce (v.) (b)
Reenforce (v.) An additional thickness of canvas, cloth, or the like, around an eyelet, buttonhole, etc.
Reenforcement (n.) The act of reenforcing, or the state of being reenforced.
Reenforcement (n.) That which reenforces; additional force; especially, additional troops or force to augment the strength of any army, or ships to strengthen a navy or fleet.
Reengage (v. t. & i.) To engage a second time or again.
Reengagement (n.) A renewed or repeated engagement.
Reengrave (v. t.) To engrave anew.
Reenjoy (v. i.) To enjoy anew.
Reenjoyment (n.) Renewed enjoyment.
Reenkindle (v. t.) To enkindle again.
Reenlist (v. t. & i.) To enlist again.
Reenlistment (n.) A renewed enlistment.
Reenslave (v. t.) To enslave again.
Reenter (v. t.) To enter again.
Reenter (v. t.) To cut deeper, as engraved lines on a plate of metal, when the engraving has not been deep enough, or the plate has become worn in printing.
Reenter (v. i.) To enter anew or again.
Reentering (n.) The process of applying additional colors, by applications of printing blocks, to patterns already partly colored.
Reenthrone (v. t.) To enthrone again; to replace on a throne.
Reenthronement (n.) A second enthroning.
Reentrance (n.) The act entereing again; re/ntry.
Reentrant (a.) Reentering; pointing or directed inwardds; as, a re/ntrant angle.
Reentry (n.) A second or new entry; as, a reentry into public life.
Reentry (n.) A resuming or retaking possession of what one has lately foregone; -- applied especially to land; the entry by a lessor upon the premises leased, on failure of the tenant to pay rent or perform the covenants in the lease.
Reerect (v. t.) To erect again.
Reermouse (n.) See Rearmouse.
Reestablish (v. t.) To establish anew; to fix or confirm again; to restore; as, to reestablish a covenant; to reestablish health.
Reestablisher (n.) One who establishes again.
Reestablishment (n.) The act reestablishing; the state of being reestablished.
Reestate (v. t.) To reestablish.
Reeve (n.) The female of the ruff.
Rove (imp. & p. p.) of Reeve
Reeving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reeve
Reeve (v. t.) To pass, as the end of a pope, through any hole in a block, thimble, cleat, ringbolt, cringle, or the like.
Reeve (n.) an officer, steward, bailiff, or governor; -- used chiefly in compounds; as, shirereeve, now written sheriff; portreeve, etc.
Reexaminable (a.) Admitting of being reexamined or reconsidered.
Reexamination (n.) A repeated examination. See under Examination.
Reexamine (v. t.) To examine anew.
Reexchange (v. t.) To exchange anew; to reverse (a previous exchange).
Reexchange (n.) A renewed exchange; a reversal of an exchange.
Reexchange (n.) The expense chargeable on a bill of exchange or draft which has been dishonored in a foreign country, and returned to the country in which it was made or indorsed, and then taken up.
Reexhibit (v. t.) To exhibit again.
Reexpel (v. t.) To expel again.
Reexperience (n.) A renewed or repeated experience.
Reexport (v. t.) To export again, as what has been imported.
Reexport (n.) Any commodity reexported; -- chiefly in the plural.
Reexportation (n.) The act of reexporting, or of exporting an import.
Reexpulsion (n.) Renewed or repeated expulsion.
Reezed (a.) Grown rank; rancid; rusty.
Refaction (n.) Recompense; atonement; retribution.
Refar (v. t.) To go over again; to repeat.
Refashion (v. t.) To fashion anew; to form or mold into shape a second time.
Refashionment (n.) The act of refashioning, or the state of being refashioned.
Refasten (v. t.) To fasten again.
Refect (v. t.) To restore after hunger or fatigue; to refresh.
Refection (n.) Refreshment after hunger or fatigue; a repast; a lunch.
Refective (a.) Refreshing; restoring.
Refective (n.) That which refreshes.
Refectories (pl. ) of Refectory
Refectory (n.) A room for refreshment; originally, a dining hall in monasteries or convents.
Refel (v. t.) To refute; to disprove; as, to refel the tricks of a sophister.
Referred (imp. & p. p.) of Refer
Referring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Refer
Refer (v. t.) To carry or send back.
Refer (v. t.) Hence: To send or direct away; to send or direct elsewhere, as for treatment, aid, information, decision, etc.; to make over, or pass over, to another; as, to refer a student to an author; to refer a beggar to an officer; to refer a bill to a committee; a court refers a matter of fact to a commissioner for investigation, or refers a question of law to a superior tribunal.
Refer (v. t.) To place in or under by a mental or rational process; to assign to, as a class, a cause, source, a motive, reason, or ground of explanation; as, he referred the phenomena to electrical disturbances.
Refer (v. i.) To have recourse; to apply; to appeal; to betake one's self; as, to refer to a dictionary.
Refer (v. i.) To have relation or reference; to relate; to point; as, the figure refers to a footnote.
Refer (v. i.) To carry the mind or thought; to direct attention; as, the preacher referred to the late election.
Refer (v. i.) To direct inquiry for information or a guarantee of any kind, as in respect to one's integrity, capacity, pecuniary ability, and the like; as, I referred to his employer for the truth of his story.
Referable (a.) Capable of being referred, or considered in relation to something else; assignable; ascribable.
Referee (n.) One to whom a thing is referred; a person to whom a matter in dispute has been referred, in order that he may settle it.
Reference (n.) The act of referring, or the state of being referred; as, reference to a chart for guidance.
Reference (n.) That which refers to something; a specific direction of the attention; as, a reference in a text-book.
Reference (n.) Relation; regard; respect.
Reference (n.) One who, or that which, is referred to.
Reference (n.) One of whom inquires can be made as to the integrity, capacity, and the like, of another.
Reference (n.) A work, or a passage in a work, to which one is referred.
Reference (n.) The act of submitting a matter in dispute to the judgment of one or more persons for decision.
Reference (n.) The process of sending any matter, for inquiry in a cause, to a master or other officer, in order that he may ascertain facts and report to the court.
Reference (n.) Appeal.
Referendary (n.) One to whose decision a cause is referred; a referee.
Referendary (n.) An officer who delivered the royal answer to petitions.
Referendary (n.) Formerly, an officer of state charged with the duty of procuring and dispatching diplomas and decrees.
Referendum (n.) A diplomatic agent's note asking for instructions from his government concerning a particular matter or point.
Referendum (n.) The right to approve or reject by popular vote a meassure passed upon by a legislature.
Referential (a.) Containing a reference; pointing to something out of itself; as, notes for referential use.
Referment (n.) The act of referring; reference.
Re-ferment (v. t. & i.) To ferment, or cause to ferment, again.
Referrer (n.) One who refers.
Referrible (a.) Referable.
Refigure (v. t.) To figure again.
Refill (v. t. & i.) To fill, or become full, again.
Refind (v. t.) To find again; to get or experience again.
Refined (imp. & p. p.) of Refine
Refining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Refine
Refine (v. t.) To reduce to a fine, unmixed, or pure state; to free from impurities; to free from dross or alloy; to separate from extraneous matter; to purify; to defecate; as, to refine gold or silver; to refine iron; to refine wine or sugar.
Refine (v. t.) To purify from what is gross, coarse, vulgar, inelegant, low, and the like; to make elegant or exellent; to polish; as, to refine the manners, the language, the style, the taste, the intellect, or the moral feelings.
Refine (v. i.) To become pure; to be cleared of feculent matter.
Refine (v. i.) To improve in accuracy, delicacy, or excellence.
Refine (v. i.) To affect nicety or subtilty in thought or language.
Refined (a.) Freed from impurities or alloy; purifed; polished; cultured; delicate; as; refined gold; refined language; refined sentiments.
Refinement (n.) The act of refining, or the state of being refined; as, the refinement or metals; refinement of ideas.
Refinement (n.) That which is refined, elaborated, or polished to excess; an affected subtilty; as, refinements of logic.
Refiner (n.) One who, or that which, refines.
Refineries (pl. ) of Refinery
Refinery (n.) The building and apparatus for refining or purifying, esp. metals and sugar.
Refinery (n.) A furnace in which cast iron is refined by the action of a blast on the molten metal.
Refit (v. t.) To fit or prepare for use again; to repair; to restore after damage or decay; as, to refit a garment; to refit ships of war.
Refit (v. t.) To fit out or supply a second time.
Refit (v. i.) To obtain repairs or supplies; as, the fleet returned to refit.
Refitment (n.) The act of refitting, or the state of being refitted.
Refix (v. t.) To fix again or anew; to establish anew.
Reflame (v. i.) To kindle again into flame.
Reflected (imp. & p. p.) of Reflect
Reflecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reflect
Reflect (v.) To bend back; to give a backwa/d turn to; to throw back; especially, to cause to return after striking upon any surface; as, a mirror reflects rays of light; polished metals reflect heat.
Reflect (v.) To give back an image or likeness of; to mirror.
Reflect (v. i.) To throw back light, heat, or the like; to return rays or beams.
Reflect (v. i.) To be sent back; to rebound as from a surface; to revert; to return.
Reflect (v. i.) To throw or turn back the thoughts upon anything; to contemplate. Specifically: To attend earnestly to what passes within the mind; to attend to the facts or phenomena of consciousness; to use attention or earnest thought; to meditate; especially, to think in relation to moral truth or rules.
Reflect (v. i.) To cast reproach; to cause censure or dishonor.
Reflected (a.) Thrown back after striking a surface; as, reflected light, heat, sound, etc.
Reflected (a.) Hence: Not one's own; received from another; as, his glory was reflected glory.
Reflected (a.) Bent backward or outward; reflexed.
Reflectent (a.) Bending or flying back; reflected.
Reflectent (a.) Reflecting; as, a reflectent body.
Reflectible (a.) Capable of being reflected, or thrown back; reflexible.
Reflecting (a.) Throwing back light, heat, etc., as a mirror or other surface.
Reflecting (a.) Given to reflection or serious consideration; reflective; contemplative; as, a reflecting mind.
Reflectingly (adv.) With reflection; also, with censure; reproachfully.
Reflection (n.) The act of reflecting, or turning or sending back, or the state of being reflected.
Reflection (n.) The return of rays, beams, sound, or the like, from a surface. See Angle of reflection, below.
Reflection (n.) The reverting of the mind to that which has already occupied it; continued consideration; meditation; contemplation; hence, also, that operation or power of the mind by which it is conscious of its own acts or states; the capacity for judging rationally, especially in view of a moral rule or standard.
Reflection (n.) Shining; brightness, as of the sun.
Reflection (n.) That which is produced by reflection.
Reflection (n.) An image given back from a reflecting surface; a reflected counterpart.
Reflection (n.) A part reflected, or turned back, at an angle; as, the reflection of a membrane.
Reflection (n.) Result of meditation; thought or opinion after attentive consideration or contemplation; especially, thoughts suggested by truth.
Reflection (n.) Censure; reproach cast.
Reflection (n.) The transference of an excitement from one nerve fiber to another by means of the nerve cells, as in reflex action. See Reflex action, under Reflex.
Reflective (a.) Throwing back images; as, a reflective mirror.
Reflective (a.) Capable of exercising thought or judgment; as, reflective reason.
Reflective (a.) Addicted to introspective or meditative habits; as, a reflective person.
Reflective (a.) Reflexive; reciprocal.
Reflector (n.) One who, or that which, reflects.
Reflector (n.) Something having a polished surface for reflecting light or heat, as a mirror, a speculum, etc.
Reflector (n.) A reflecting telescope.
Reflector (n.) A device for reflecting sound.
Reflex (a.) Directed back; attended by reflection; retroactive; introspective.
Reflex (a.) Produced in reaction, in resistance, or in return.
Reflex (a.) Of, pertaining to, or produced by, stimulus or excitation without the necessary intervention of consciousness.
Reflex (n.) Reflection; the light reflected from an illuminated surface to one in shade.
Reflex (n.) An involuntary movement produced by reflex action.
Reflex (v. t.) To reflect.
Reflex (v. t.) To bend back; to turn back.
Reflexed (a.) Bent backward or outward.
Reflexibility (n.) The quality or capability of being reflexible; as, the reflexibility of the rays of light.
Reflexible (a.) Capable of being reflected, or thrown back.
Reflexion (n.) See Reflection.
Reflexity (n.) The state or condition of being reflected.
Reflexive (a.) Bending or turned backward; reflective; having respect to something past.
Reflexive (a.) Implying censure.
Reflexive (a.) Having for its direct object a pronoun which refers to the agent or subject as its antecedent; -- said of certain verbs; as, the witness perjured himself; I bethought myself. Applied also to pronouns of this class; reciprocal; reflective.
Reflexly (adv.) In a reflex manner; reflectively.
Refloat (n.) Reflux; ebb.
Reflorescence (n.) A blossoming anew of a plant after it has apparently ceased blossoming for the season.
Reflourish (v. t. & i.) To flourish again.
Reflow (v. i.) To flow back; to ebb.
Reflower (v. i. & t.) To flower, or cause to flower, again.
Refluctuation (n.) A flowing back; refluence.
Refluence (n.) Alt. of Refluency
Refluency (n.) The quality of being refluent; a flowing back.
Refluent (a.) Flowing back; returning; ebbing.
Reflueus (a.) Refluent.
Reflux (a.) Returning, or flowing back; reflex; as, reflux action.
Reflux (n.) A flowing back, as the return of a fluid; ebb; reaction; as, the flux and reflux of the tides.
Refocillate (v. t.) To refresh; to revive.
Refocillation (n.) Restoration of strength by refreshment.
Refold (v. t.) To fold again.
Refoment (v. t.) To foment anew.
Reforestization (n.) The act or process of reforestizing.
Reforestize (v. t.) To convert again into a forest; to plant again with trees.
Reforge (v. t.) To forge again or anew; hence, to fashion or fabricate anew; to make over.
Reforger (n.) One who reforges.
Reform (v. t.) To put into a new and improved form or condition; to restore to a former good state, or bring from bad to good; to change from worse to better; to amend; to correct; as, to reform a profligate man; to reform corrupt manners or morals.
Reform (v. i.) To return to a good state; to amend or correct one's own character or habits; as, a man of settled habits of vice will seldom reform.
Reform (n.) Amendment of what is defective, vicious, corrupt, or depraved; reformation; as, reform of elections; reform of government.
Re-formed (imp. & p. p.) of Re-form
Re-forming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Re-form
Re-form (v. t. & i.) To give a new form to; to form anew; to take form again, or to take a new form; as, to re-form the line after a charge.
Reformable (a.) Capable of being reformed.
Reformade (n.) A reformado.
Reformado (v. t.) A monk of a reformed order.
Reformado (v. t.) An officer who, in disgrace, is deprived of his command, but retains his rank, and sometimes his pay.
Reformalize (v. i.) To affect reformation; to pretend to correctness.
Reformation (n.) The act of reforming, or the state of being reformed; change from worse to better; correction or amendment of life, manners, or of anything vicious or corrupt; as, the reformation of manners; reformation of the age; reformation of abuses.
Reformation (n.) Specifically (Eccl. Hist.), the important religious movement commenced by Luther early in the sixteenth century, which resulted in the formation of the various Protestant churches.
Re-formation (n.) The act of forming anew; a second forming in order; as, the reformation of a column of troops into a hollow square.
Reformative (a.) Forming again; having the quality of renewing form; reformatory.
Reformatory (a.) Tending to produce reformation; reformative.
-ries (pl. ) of Reformatory
Reformatory (n.) An institution for promoting the reformation of offenders.
Reformed (a.) Corrected; amended; restored to purity or excellence; said, specifically, of the whole body of Protestant churches originating in the Reformation. Also, in a more restricted sense, of those who separated from Luther on the doctrine of consubstantiation, etc., and carried the Reformation, as they claimed, to a higher point. The Protestant churches founded by them in Switzerland, France, Holland, and part of Germany, were called the Reformed churches.
Reformed (a.) Amended in character and life; as, a reformed gambler or drunkard.
Reformed (a.) Retained in service on half or full pay after the disbandment of the company or troop; -- said of an officer.
Reformer (n.) One who effects a reformation or amendment; one who labors for, or urges, reform; as, a reformer of manners, or of abuses.
Reformer (n.) One of those who commenced the reformation of religion in the sixteenth century, as Luther, Melanchthon, Zwingli, and Calvin.
Reformist (n.) A reformer.
Reformly (adv.) In the manner of a reform; for the purpose of reform.
Refortification (n.) A fortifying anew, or a second time.
Refortify (v. t.) To fortify anew.
Refossion (n.) The act of digging up again.
Refound (v. t.) To found or cast anew.
Refound (v. t.) To found or establish again; to re/stablish.
Refound () imp. & p. p. of Refind, v. t.
Refounder (n.) One who refounds.
Refracted (imp. & p. p.) of Refract
Refracting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Refract
Refract (n.) To bend sharply and abruptly back; to break off.
Refract (n.) To break the natural course of, as rays of light orr heat, when passing from one transparent medium to another of different density; to cause to deviate from a direct course by an action distinct from reflection; as, a dense medium refrcts the rays of light as they pass into it from a rare medium.
Refractable (a.) Capable of being refracted.
Refracted (a.) Bent backward angularly, as if half-broken; as, a refracted stem or leaf.
Refracted (a.) Turned from a direct course by refraction; as, refracted rays of light.
Refracting (a.) Serving or tending to refract; as, a refracting medium.
Refraction (n.) The act of refracting, or the state of being refracted.
Refraction (n.) The change in the direction of ray of light, heat, or the like, when it enters obliquely a medium of a different density from that through which it has previously moved.
Refraction (n.) The change in the direction of a ray of light, and, consequently, in the apparent position of a heavenly body from which it emanates, arising from its passage through the earth's atmosphere; -- hence distinguished as atmospheric refraction, or astronomical refraction.
Refraction (n.) The correction which is to be deducted from the apparent altitude of a heavenly body on account of atmospheric refraction, in order to obtain the true altitude.
Refractive (a.) Serving or having power to refract, or turn from a direct course; pertaining to refraction; as, refractive surfaces; refractive powers.
Refractiveness (n.) The quality or condition of being refractive.
Refractometer (n.) A contrivance for exhibiting and measuring the refraction of light.
Refractor (n.) Anything that refracts
Refractor (n.) A refracting telescope, in which the image to be viewed is formed by the refraction of light in passing through a convex lens.
Refractorily (adv.) In a refractory manner; perversely; obstinately.
Refractoriness (n.) The quality or condition of being refractory.
Refractory (a.) Obstinate in disobedience; contumacious; stubborn; unmanageable; as, a refractory child; a refractory beast.
Refractory (a.) Resisting ordinary treatment; difficult of fusion, reduction, or the like; -- said especially of metals and the like, which do not readily yield to heat, or to the hammer; as, a refractory ore.
Refractory (n.) A refractory person.
Refractory (n.) Refractoriness.
Refractory (n.) OPottery) A piece of ware covered with a vaporable flux and placed in a kiln, to communicate a glaze to the other articles.
Refracture (n.) A second breaking (as of a badly set bone) by the surgeon.
Refracture (v. t.) To break again, as a bone.
Refragable (a.) Capable of being refuted; refutable.
Refragate (v. i.) To oppose.
Refrained (imp. & p. p.) of Refrain
Refraining (p. pr. & vb/ n.) of Refrain
Refrain (v. t.) To hold back; to restrain; to keep within prescribed bounds; to curb; to govern.
Refrain (v. t.) To abstain from
Refrain (v. i.) To keep one's self from action or interference; to hold aloof; to forbear; to abstain.
Refrain (v.) The burden of a song; a phrase or verse which recurs at the end of each of the separate stanzas or divisions of a poetic composition.
Refrainer (n.) One who refrains.
Refrainment (n.) Act of refraining.
Reframe (v. t.) To frame again or anew.
Refrangibility (n.) The quality of being refrangible.
Refrangible (a.) Capable of being refracted, or turned out of a direct course, in passing from one medium to another, as rays of light.
Refrenation (v. t.) The act of refraining.
Refreshed (imp. & p. p.) of Refresh
Refreshing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Refresh
Refresh (a.) To make fresh again; to restore strength, spirit, animation, or the like, to; to relieve from fatigue or depression; to reinvigorate; to enliven anew; to reanimate; as, sleep refreshes the body and the mind.
Refresh (a.) To make as if new; to repair; to restore.
Refresh (n.) The act of refreshing.
Refresher (n.) One who, or that which, refreshes.
Refresher (n.) An extra fee paid to counsel in a case that has been adjourned from one term to another, or that is unusually protracted.
Refreshful (a.) Full of power to refresh; refreshing.
Refreshing (a.) Reviving; reanimating.
Refreshment (n.) The act of refreshing, or the state of being refreshed; restoration of strength, spirit, vigor, or liveliness; relief after suffering; new life or animation after depression.
Refreshment (n.) That which refreshes; means of restoration or reanimation; especially, an article of food or drink.
Refret (n.) Refrain.
Refreyd (v. t.) To chill; to cool.
Refrication (n.) A rubbing up afresh; a brightening.
Refrigerant (a.) Cooling; allaying heat or fever.
Refrigerant (n.) That which makes to be cool or cold; specifically, a medicine or an application for allaying fever, or the symptoms of fever; -- used also figuratively.
Refrigerated (imp. & p. p.) of Refrigerate
Refrigerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Refrigerate
Refrigerate (v. t.) To cause to become cool; to make or keep cold or cool.
Refrigeration (n.) The act or process of refrigerating or cooling, or the state of being cooled.
Refrigerative (a.) Cooling; allaying heat.
Refrigerative (n.) A refrigerant.
Refrigerator (n.) That which refrigerates or makes cold; that which keeps cool.
Refrigerator (n.) A box or room for keeping food or other articles cool, usually by means of ice.
Refrigerator (n.) An apparatus for rapidly cooling heated liquids or vapors, connected with a still, etc.
Refrigeratory (a.) Mitigating heat; cooling.
-ries (pl. ) of Refrigeratory
Refrigeratory (n.) That which refrigerates or cools.
Refrigeratory (n.) In distillation, a vessel filled with cold water, surrounding the worm, the vapor in which is thereby condensed.
Refrigeratory (n.) The chamber, or tank, in which ice is formed, in an ice machine.
Refrigerium (n.) Cooling refreshment; refrigeration.
Refringency (n.) The power possessed by a substance to refract a ray; as, different substances have different refringencies.
Refringent (a.) Pertaining to, or possessing, refringency; refractive; refracting; as, a refringent prism of spar.
Reft (imp. & p. p.) Bereft.
Reft (n.) A chink; a rift. See Rift.
Refuge (n.) Shelter or protection from danger or distress.
Refuge (n.) That which shelters or protects from danger, or from distress or calamity; a stronghold which protects by its strength, or a sanctuary which secures safety by its sacredness; a place inaccessible to an enemy.
Refuge (n.) An expedient to secure protection or defense; a device or contrivance.
Refuge (v. t.) To shelter; to protect.
Refugee (n.) One who flees to a shelter, or place of safety.
Refugee (n.) Especially, one who, in times of persecution or political commotion, flees to a foreign power or country for safety; as, the French refugees who left France after the revocation of the edict of Nantes.
Refulgence (n.) Alt. of Refulgency
Refulgency (n.) The quality of being refulgent; brilliancy; splender; radiance.
Refulgent (a.) Casting a bright light; radiant; brilliant; resplendent; shining; splendid; as, refulgent beams.
Refund (v. t.) To fund again or anew; to replace (a fund or loan) by a new fund; as, to refund a railroad loan.
Refund (v. t.) To pour back.
Refund (v. t.) To give back; to repay; to restore.
Refund (v. t.) To supply again with funds; to reimburse.
Refunder (n.) One who refunds.
Refundment (n.) The act of refunding; also, that which is refunded.
Refurbish (v. t.) To furbish anew.
Refurnish (v. t.) To furnish again.
Refurnishment (n.) The act of refurnishing, or state of being refurnished.
Refusable (a.) Capable of being refused; admitting of refusal.
Refusal (n.) The act of refusing; denial of anything demanded, solicited, or offered for acceptance.
Refusal (n.) The right of taking in preference to others; the choice of taking or refusing; option; as, to give one the refusal of a farm; to have the refusal of an employment.
Refused (imp. & p. p.) of Refuse
Refusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Refuse
Refuse (v. t.) To deny, as a request, demand, invitation, or command; to decline to do or grant.
Refuse (v. t.) To throw back, or cause to keep back (as the center, a wing, or a flank), out of the regular aligment when troops ar/ about to engage the enemy; as, to refuse the right wing while the left wing attacks.
Refuse (v. t.) To decline to accept; to reject; to deny the request or petition of; as, to refuse a suitor.
Refuse (v. t.) To disown.
Refuse (v. i.) To deny compliance; not to comply.
Refuse (n.) Refusal.
Refuse (n.) That which is refused or rejected as useless; waste or worthless matter.
Refuse (a.) Refused; rejected; hence; left as unworthy of acceptance; of no value; worthless.
Refuser (n.) One who refuses or rejects.
Refusion (n.) New or repeated melting, as of metals.
Refusion (n.) Restoration.
Refut (n.) Refuge.
Refutability (n.) The quality of being refutable.
Refutable (a.) Admitting of being refuted or disproved; capable of being proved false or erroneous.
Refutal (n.) Act of refuting; refutation.
Refutation (n.) The act or process of refuting or disproving, or the state of being refuted; proof of falsehood or error; the overthrowing of an argument, opinion, testimony, doctrine, or theory, by argument or countervailing proof.
Refutatory (a.) Tending tu refute; refuting.
Refuted (imp. & p. p.) of Refute
Refuting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Refute
Refute (v. t.) To disprove and overthrow by argument, evidence, or countervailing proof; to prove to be false or erroneous; to confute; as, to refute arguments; to refute testimony; to refute opinions or theories; to refute a disputant.
Refuter (n.) One who, or that which, refutes.
Regain (v. t.) To gain anew; to get again; to recover, as what has escaped or been lost; to reach again.
Regal (a.) Of or pertaining to a king; kingly; royal; as, regal authority, pomp, or sway.
Regal (n.) A small portable organ, played with one hand, the bellows being worked with the other, -- used in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.
Regale (n.) A prerogative of royalty.
Regaled (imp. & p. p.) of Regale
Regaling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Regale
Regale (v. t.) To enerta/n in a regal or sumptuous manner; to enrtertain with something that delights; to gratify; to refresh; as, to regale the taste, the eye, or the ear.
Regale (v. i.) To feast; t/ fare sumtuously.
Regale (v. t.) A sumptuous repast; a banquet.
Regalement (n.) The act of regaling; anything which regales; refreshment; entertainment.
Regaler (n.) One who regales.
Regalia (n. pl.) That which belongs to royalty. Specifically: (a) The rights and prerogatives of a king. (b) Royal estates and revenues. (c) Ensings, symbols, or paraphernalia of royalty.
Regalia (n. pl.) Hence, decorations or insignia of an office or order, as of Freemasons, Odd Fellows,etc.
Regalia (n. pl.) Sumptuous food; delicacies.
Regalia (n.) A kind of cigar of large size and superior quality; also, the size in which such cigars are classed.
Regalian (a.) Pertaining to regalia; pertaining to the royal insignia or prerogatives.
Regalism (n.) The doctrine of royal prerogative or supremacy.
Regality (n.) Royalty; sovereignty; sovereign jurisdiction.
Regality (n.) An ensign or badge of royalty.
Regally (adv.) In a regal or royal manner.
Regarded (imp. & p. p.) of Regard
Regarding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Regard
Regard (v. t.) To keep in view; to behold; to look at; to view; to gaze upon.
Regard (v. t.) Hence, to look or front toward; to face.
Regard (v. t.) To look closely at; to observe attentively; to pay attention to; to notice or remark particularly.
Regard (v. t.) To look upon, as in a certain relation; to hold as an popinion; to consider; as, to regard abstinence from wine as a duty; to regard another as a friend or enemy.
Regard (v. t.) To consider and treat; to have a certain feeling toward; as, to regard one with favor or dislike.
Regard (v. t.) To pay respect to; to treat as something of peculiar value, sanctity, or the like; to care for; to esteem.
Regard (v. t.) To take into consideration; to take account of, as a fact or condition.
Regard (v. t.) To have relation to, as bearing upon; to respect; to relate to; to touch; as, an argument does not regard the question; -- often used impersonally; as, I agree with you as regards this or that.
Regard (v. i.) To look attentively; to consider; to notice.
Regard (v. t.) A look; aspect directed to another; view; gaze.
Regard (v. t.) Attention of the mind with a feeling of interest; observation; heed; notice.
Regard (v. t.) That view of the mind which springs from perception of value, estimable qualities, or anything that excites admiration; respect; esteem; reverence; affection; as, to have a high regard for a person; -- often in the plural.
Regard (v. t.) State of being regarded, whether favorably or otherwise; estimation; repute; note; account.
Regard (v. t.) Consideration; thought; reflection; heed.
Regard (v. t.) Matter for consideration; account; condition.
Regard (v. t.) Respect; relation; reference.
Regard (v. t.) Object of sight; scene; view; aspect.
Regard (v. t.) Supervision; inspection.
Regardable (a.) Worthy of regard or notice; to be regarded; observable.
Regardant (v. t.) Looking behind; looking backward watchfully.
Regardant (v. t.) Looking behind or backward; as, a lion regardant.
Regardant (v. t.) Annexed to the land or manor; as, a villain regardant.
Regarder (n.) One who regards.
Regarder (n.) An officer appointed to supervise the forest.
Regardful (a.) Heedful; attentive; observant.
Regarding (prep.) Concerning; respecting.
Regardless (a.) Having no regard; heedless; careless; as, regardless of life, consequences, dignity.
Regardless (a.) Not regarded; slighted.
Regather (v. t.) To gather again.
Regattas (pl. ) of Regatta
Regatta (n.) Originally, a gondola race in Venice; now, a rowing or sailing race, or a series of such races.
Regel (n.) See Rigel.
Regelate (v. i.) To freeze together again; to undergo regelation, as ice.
Regelation (n.) The act or process of freezing anew, or together,as two pieces of ice.
Regence (n.) Rule.
Regencies (pl. ) of Regency
Regency (a.) The office of ruler; rule; authority; government.
Regency (a.) Especially, the office, jurisdiction, or dominion of a regent or vicarious ruler, or of a body of regents; deputed or vicarious government.
Regency (a.) A body of men intrusted with vicarious government; as, a regency constituted during a king's minority, absence from the kingdom, or other disability.
Regeneracy (n.) The state of being regenerated.
Regenerate (a.) Reproduced.
Regenerate (a.) Born anew; become Christian; renovated in heart; changed from a natural to a spiritual state.
Regenerate (v. t.) To generate or produce anew; to reproduce; to give new life, strength, or vigor to.
Regenerate (v. t.) To cause to be spiritually born anew; to cause to become a Christian; to convert from sin to holiness; to implant holy affections in the heart of.
Regenerate (v. t.) Hence, to make a radical change for the better in the character or condition of; as, to regenerate society.
Regenerateness (n.) The quality or state of being rgenerate.
Regeneration (n.) The act of regenerating, or the state of being regenerated.
Regeneration (n.) The entering into a new spiritual life; the act of becoming, or of being made, Christian; that change by which holy affectations and purposes are substituted for the opposite motives in the heart.
Regeneration (n.) The reproduction of a part which has been removed or destroyed; re-formation; -- a process especially characteristic of a many of the lower animals; as, the regeneration of lost feelers, limbs, and claws by spiders and crabs.
Regeneration (n.) The reproduction or renewal of tissues, cells, etc., which have been used up and destroyed by the ordinary processes of life; as, the continual regeneration of the epithelial cells of the body, or the regeneration of the contractile substance of muscle.
Regeneration (n.) The union of parts which have been severed, so that they become anatomically perfect; as, the regeneration of a nerve.
Regenerative (a.) Of or pertaining to regeneration; tending to regenerate; as, regenerative influences.
Regeneratively (adv.) So as to regenerate.
Regenerator (n.) One who, or that which, regenerates.
Regenerator (n.) A device used in connection with hot-air engines, gas-burning furnaces, etc., in which the incoming air or gas is heated by being brought into contact with masses of iron, brick, etc., which have been previously heated by the outgoing, or escaping, hot air or gas.
Regeneratory (a.) Having power to renew; tending to reproduce; regenerating.
Regenesis (n.) New birth; renewal.
Regent (a.) Ruling; governing; regnant.
Regent (a.) Exercising vicarious authority.
Regent (a.) One who rules or reigns; a governor; a ruler.
Regent (a.) Especially, one invested with vicarious authority; one who governs a kingdom in the minority, absence, or disability of the sovereign.
Regent (a.) One of a governing board; a trustee or overseer; a superintendent; a curator; as, the regents of the Smithsonian Institution.
Regent (a.) A resident master of arts of less than five years' standing, or a doctor of less than twwo. They were formerly privileged to lecture in the schools.
Regentess (n.) A female regent.
Regentship (n.) The office of a regent; regency.
Regerminate (v. i.) To germinate again.
Regermination (n.) A germinating again or anew.
Regest (n.) A register.
Reget (v. t.) To get again.
Regian (n.) An upholder of kingly authority; a royalist.
Regible (a.) Governable; tractable.
Regicidal (a.) Pertaining to regicide, or to one committing it; having the nature of, or resembling, regicide.
Regicide (n.) One who kills or who murders a king; specifically (Eng.Hist.), one of the judges who condemned Charles I. to death.
Regicide (n.) The killing or the murder of a king.
Regild (v. t.) To gild anew.
Regime (n.) Mode or system of rule or management; character of government, or of the prevailing social system.
Regime (n.) The condition of a river with respect to the rate of its flow, as measured by the volume of water passing different cross sections in a given time, uniform regime being the condition when the flow is equal and uniform at all the cross sections.
Regimen (n.) Orderly government; system of order; adminisration.
Regimen (n.) Any regulation or remedy which is intended to produce beneficial effects by gradual operation
Regimen (n.) a systematic course of diet, etc., pursed with a view to improving or preserving the health, or for the purpose of attaining some particular effect, as a reduction of flesh; -- sometimes used synonymously with hygiene.
Regimen (n.) A syntactical relation between words, as when one depends on another and is regulated by it in respect to case or mood; government.
Regimen (n.) The word or words governed.
Regiment (n.) Government; mode of ruling; rule; authority; regimen.
Regiment (n.) A region or district governed.
Regiment (n.) A body of men, either horse, foot, or artillery, commanded by a colonel, and consisting of a number of companies, usually ten.
Regimented (imp. & p. p.) of Regiment
Regimenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Regiment
Regiment (v. t.) To form into a regiment or into regiments.
Regimental (a.) Belonging to, or concerning, a regiment; as, regimental officers, clothing.
Regimentally (adv.) In or by a regiment or regiments; as, troops classified regimentally.
Regimentals (n. pl.) The uniform worn by the officers and soldiers of a regiment; military dress; -- formerly used in the singular in the same sense.
Regiminal (a.) Of or relating to regimen; as, regiminal rules.
Region (n.) One of the grand districts or quarters into which any space or surface, as of the earth or the heavens, is conceived of as divided; hence, in general, a portion of space or territory of indefinite extent; country; province; district; tract.
Region (n.) Tract, part, or space, lying about and including anything; neighborhood; vicinity; sphere.
Region (n.) The upper air; the sky; the heavens.
Region (n.) The inhabitants of a district.
Region (n.) Place; rank; station.
Regional (a.) Of or pertaining to a particular region; sectional.
Regious (a.) Regal; royal.
Register (n.) A written account or entry; an official or formal enumeration, description, or record; a memorial record; a list or roll; a schedule.
Register (n.) A record containing a list and description of the merchant vessels belonging to a port or customs district.
Register (n.) A certificate issued by the collector of customs of a port or district to the owner of a vessel, containing the description of a vessel, its name, ownership, and other material facts. It is kept on board the vessel, to be used as an evidence of nationality or as a muniment of title.
Register (n.) One who registers or records; a registrar; a recorder; especially, a public officer charged with the duty of recording certain transactions or events; as, a register of deeds.
Register (n.) That which registers or records.
Register (n.) A contrivance for automatically noting the performance of a machine or the rapidity of a process.
Register (n.) The part of a telegraphic apparatus which records automatically the message received.
Register (n.) A machine for registering automatically the number of persons passing through a gateway, fares taken, etc.; a telltale.
Register (n.) A lid, stopper, or sliding plate, in a furnace, stove, etc., for regulating the admission of air to the fuel; also, an arrangement containing dampers or shutters, as in the floor or wall of a room or passage, or in a chimney, for admitting or excluding heated air, or for regulating ventilation.
Register (n.) The inner part of the mold in which types are cast.
Register (n.) The correspondence of pages, columns, or lines on the opposite or reverse sides of the sheet.
Register (n.) The correspondence or adjustment of the several impressions in a design which is printed in parts, as in chromolithographic printing, or in the manufacture of paper hangings. See Register, v. i. 2.
Register (v. i.) The compass of a voice or instrument; a specified portion of the compass of a voice, or a series of vocal tones of a given compass; as, the upper, middle, or lower register; the soprano register; the tenor register.
Register (v. i.) A stop or set of pipes in an organ.
Registered (imp. & p. p.) of Register
Registering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Register
Register (n.) To enter in a register; to record formally and distinctly, as for future use or service.
Register (n.) To enroll; to enter in a list.
Register (v. i.) To enroll one's name in a register.
Register (v. i.) To correspond in relative position; as, two pages, columns, etc. , register when the corresponding parts fall in the same line, or when line falls exactly upon line in reverse pages, or (as in chromatic printing) where the various colors of the design are printed consecutively, and perfect adjustment of parts is necessary.
Registering (a.) Recording; -- applied to instruments; having an apparatus which registers; as, a registering thermometer. See Recording.
Registership (n.) The office of a register.
Registrant (n.) One who registers; esp., one who , by virtue of securing an official registration, obtains a certain right or title of possession, as to a trade-mark.
Registrar (n.) One who registers; a recorder; a keeper of records; as, a registrar of births, deaths, and marriages. See Register, n., 3.
Registrarship (n.) The office of a registrar.
Registrary (n.) A registrar.
Registrate (v. t.) To register.
Registration (v.) The act of registering; registry; enrollment.
Registration (v.) The art of selecting and combining the stops or registers of an organ.
Registry (n.) The act of recording or writing in a register; enrollment; registration.
Registry (n.) The place where a register is kept.
Registry (n.) A record; an account; a register.
Regius (a.) Of or pertaining to a king; royal.
Regive (v. t.) To give again; to give back.
Regle (v. t.) To rule; to govern.
Reglement (n.) Regulation.
Reglementary (a.) Regulative.
Reglet (n.) A flat, narrow molding, used chiefly to separate the parts or members of compartments or panels from one another, or doubled, turned, and interlaced so as to form knots, frets, or other ornaments. See Illust. (12) of Column.
Reglet (n.) A strip of wood or metal of the height of a quadrat, used for regulating the space between pages in a chase, and also for spacing out title-pages and other open matter. It is graded to different sizes, and designated by the name of the type that it matches; as, nonpareil reglet, pica reglet, and the like.
Regma (n.) A kind of dry fruit, consisting of three or more cells, each which at length breaks open at the inner angle.
Regmacarp (n.) Any dry dehiscent fruit.
Regnal (a.) Of or pertaining to the reign of a monarch; as, regnal years.
Regnancy (n.) The condition or quality of being regnant; sovereignty; rule.
Regnant (a.) Exercising regal authority; reigning; as, a queen regnant.
Regnant (a.) Having the chief power; ruling; predominant; prevalent.
Regnative (a.) Ruling; governing.
Regne (n. & v.) See Reign.
Regorge (v. t.) To vomit up; to eject from the stomach; to throw back.
Regorge (v. t.) To swallow again; to swallow back.
Regrade (v. i.) To retire; to go back.
Regraft (v. t.) To graft again.
Regrant (v. t.) To grant back; to grant again or anew.
Regrant (n.) The act of granting back to a former proprietor.
Regrant (n.) A renewed of a grant; as, the regrant of a monopoly.
Regrated (imp. & p. p.) of Regrate
Regrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Regrate
Regrate (v. t.) To remove the outer surface of, as of an old hewn stone, so as to give it a fresh appearance.
Regrate (v. t.) To offend; to shock.
Regrate (v. t.) To buy in large quantities, as corn, provisions, etc., at a market or fair, with the intention of selling the same again, in or near the same place, at a higher price, -- a practice which was formerly treated as a public offense.
Regrater (n.) One who regrates.
Regratery (n.) The act or practice of regrating.
Regratiatory (n.) A returning or giving of thanks.
Regrator (n.) One guilty of regrating.
Regrede (v. i.) To go back; to retrograde, as the apsis of a planet's orbit.
Regredience (n.) A going back; a retrogression; a return.
Regreet (v. t.) To greet again; to resalute; to return a salutation to; to greet.
Regreet (n.) A return or exchange of salutation.
Regress (n.) The act of passing back; passage back; return; retrogression. "The progress or regress of man".
Regress (n.) The power or liberty of passing back.
Regressed (imp. & p. p.) of Regress
Regressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Regress
Regress (v. i.) To go back; to return to a former place or state.
Regression (n.) The act of passing back or returning; retrogression; retrogradation.
Regressive (a.) Passing back; returning.
Regressive (a.) Characterized by retrogression; retrogressive.
Regressively (adv.) In a regressive manner.
Regret (v.) Pain of mind on account of something done or experienced in the past, with a wish that it had been different; a looking back with dissatisfaction or with longing; grief; sorrow; especially, a mourning on account of the loss of some joy, advantage, or satisfaction.
Regret (v.) Dislike; aversion.
Regretted (imp. & p. p.) of Regret
Regretting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Regret
Regret (v. t.) To experience regret on account of; to lose or miss with a sense of regret; to feel sorrow or dissatisfaction on account of (the happening or the loss of something); as, to regret an error; to regret lost opportunities or friends.
Regretful (a.) Full of regret; indulging in regrets; repining.
Regrow (v. i. & t.) To grow again.
Regrowth (n.) The act of regrowing; a second or new growth.
Reguardant (a.) Same as Regardant.
Reguerdon (v. t.) To reward.
Regulable (a.) Capable of being regulated.
Regular (a.) Conformed to a rule; agreeable to an established rule, law, principle, or type, or to established customary forms; normal; symmetrical; as, a regular verse in poetry; a regular piece of music; a regular verb; regular practice of law or medicine; a regular building.
Regular (a.) Governed by rule or rules; steady or uniform in course, practice, or occurence; not subject to unexplained or irrational variation; returning at stated intervals; steadily pursued; orderlly; methodical; as, the regular succession of day and night; regular habits.
Regular (a.) Constituted, selected, or conducted in conformity with established usages, rules, or discipline; duly authorized; permanently organized; as, a regular meeting; a regular physican; a regular nomination; regular troops.
Regular (a.) Belonging to a monastic order or community; as, regular clergy, in distinction dfrom the secular clergy.
Regular (a.) Thorough; complete; unmitigated; as, a regular humbug.
Regular (a.) Having all the parts of the same kind alike in size and shape; as, a regular flower; a regular sea urchin.
Regular (a.) Same as Isometric.
Regular (a.) A member of any religious order or community who has taken the vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience, and who has been solemnly recognized by the church.
Regular (a.) A soldier belonging to a permanent or standing army; -- chiefly used in the plural.
Regularia (n. pl.) A division of Echini which includes the circular, or regular, sea urchins.
Regularity (n.) The condition or quality of being regular; as, regularity of outline; the regularity of motion.
Regularize (v. t.) To cause to become regular; to regulate.
Regularly (adv.) In a regular manner; in uniform order; methodically; in due order or time.
Regularness (n.) Regularity.
Regulated (imp. & p. p.) of Regulate
Regulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Regulate
Regulate (v. t.) To adjust by rule, method, or established mode; to direct by rule or restriction; to subject to governing principles or laws.
Regulate (v. t.) To put in good order; as, to regulate the disordered state of a nation or its finances.
Regulate (v. t.) To adjust, or maintain, with respect to a desired rate, degree, or condition; as, to regulate the temperature of a room, the pressure of steam, the speed of a machine, etc.
Regulation (n.) The act of regulating, or the state of being regulated.
Regulation (n.) A rule or order prescribed for management or government; prescription; a regulating principle; a governing direction; precept; law; as, the regulations of a society or a school.
Regulative (a.) Tending to regulate; regulating.
Regulative (a.) Necessarily assumed by the mind as fundamental to all other knowledge; furnishing fundamental principles; as, the regulative principles, or principles a priori; the regulative faculty.
Regulator (n.) One who, or that which, regulates.
Regulator (n.) A contrivance for regulating and controlling motion, as: (a) The lever or index in a watch, which controls the effective length of the hairspring, and thus regulates the vibrations of the balance. (b) The governor of a steam engine. (c) A valve for controlling the admission of steam to the steam chest, in a locomotive.
Regulator (n.) A clock, or other timepiece, used as a standard of correct time. See Astronomical clock (a), under Clock.
Regulator (n.) A member of a volunteer committee which, in default of the lawful authority, undertakes to preserve order and prevent crimes; also, sometimes, one of a band organized for the comission of violent crimes.
Reguline (a.) Of or pertaining to regulus.
Regulize (v. t.) To reduce to regulus; to separate, as a metal from extraneous matter; as, to regulize antimony.
Reguluses (pl. ) of Regulus
Reguli (pl. ) of Regulus
Regulus (n.) A petty king; a ruler of little power or consequence.
Regulus (n.) The button, globule, or mass of metal, in a more or less impure state, which forms in the bottom of the crucible in smelting and reduction of ores.
Regulus (n.) A star of the first magnitude in the constellation Leo; -- called also the Lion's Heart.
Regurgitate (v. t.) To throw or pour back, as from a deep or hollow place; to pour or throw back in great quantity.
Regurgitate (v. i.) To be thrown or poured back; to rush or surge back.
Regurgitation (n.) The act of flowing or pouring back by the orifice of entrance
Regurgitation (n.) the reversal of the natural direction in which the current or contents flow through a tube or cavity of the body.
Regurgitation (n.) The act of swallowing again; reabsorption.
Rehabilitated (imp. & p. p.) of Rehabilitate
Rehabilitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rehabilitate
Rehabilitate (v. t.) To invest or clothe again with some right, authority, or dignity; to restore to a former capacity; to reinstate; to qualify again; to restore, as a delinquent, to a former right, rank, or privilege lost or forfeited; -- a term of civil and canon law.
Rehabilitation (n.) The act of rehabilitating, or the state of being rehabilitated.
Rehash (v. t.) To hash over again; to prepare or use again; as, to rehash old arguments.
Rehash (n.) Something hashed over, or made up from old materials.
Rehear (v. t.) To hear again; to try a second time; as, to rehear a cause in Chancery.
Rehearsal (n.) The act of rehearsing; recital; narration; repetition; specifically, a private recital, performance, or season of practice, in preparation for a public exhibition or exercise.
Rehearsed (imp. & p. p.) of Rehearse
Rehearsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rehearse
Rehearse (v. t.) To repeat, as what has been already said; to tell over again; to recite.
Rehearse (v. t.) To narrate; to relate; to tell.
Rehearse (v. t.) To recite or repeat in private for experiment and improvement, before a public representation; as, to rehearse a tragedy.
Rehearse (v. t.) To cause to rehearse; to instruct by rehearsal.
Rehearse (v. i.) To recite or repeat something for practice.
Rehearser (n.) One who rehearses.
Reheat (v. t.) To heat again.
Reheat (v. t.) To revive; to cheer; to cherish.
Rehibition (n.) The returning of a thing purchased to the seller, on the ground of defect or frand.
Rehibitory (a.) Of or relating to rehibition; as, a rehibitory action.
Rehire (v. t.) To hire again.
Rehypothecate (v. t.) To hypothecate again.
Reis (pl. ) of Rei
Rei (n.) A portuguese money of account, in value about one tenth of a cent.
Reichsrath (n.) The parliament of Austria (exclusive of Hungary, which has its own diet, or parliament). It consists of an Upper and a Lower House, or a House of Lords and a House of Representatives.
Reichsstand (n.) A free city of the former German empire.
Reichstag (n.) The Diet, or House of Representatives, of the German empire, which is composed of members elected for a term of three years by the direct vote of the people. See Bundesrath.
Reif (n.) Robbery; spoil.
Reigle (n.) A hollow cut or channel for quiding anything; as, the reigle of a side post for a flood gate.
Reigle (v. t.) To regulate; to govern.
Reiglement (n.) Rule; regulation.
Reign (n.) Royal authority; supreme power; sovereignty; rule; dominion.
Reign (n.) The territory or sphere which is reigned over; kingdom; empire; realm; dominion.
Reign (n.) The time during which a king, queen, or emperor possesses the supreme authority; as, it happened in the reign of Elizabeth.
Reigned (imp. & p. p.) of Reign
Reigning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reign
Reign (n.) To possess or exercise sovereign power or authority; to exercise government, as a king or emperor;; to hold supreme power; to rule.
Reign (n.) Hence, to be predominant; to prevail.
Reign (n.) To have superior or uncontrolled dominion; to rule.
Reigner (n.) One who reigns.
Reillume (v. t.) To light again; to cause to shine anew; to relume; to reillumine.
Reilluminate (v. t.) To enlighten again; to reillumine.
Reillumination (n.) The act or process of enlightening again.
Reillumine (v. t.) To illumine again or anew; to reillume.
Reim (n.) A strip of oxhide, deprived of hair, and rendered pliable, -- used for twisting into ropes, etc.
Reimbark (v. t. & i.) See Reembark.
Reimbody (v. t. & i.) To imbody again.
Reimbursable (a.) Capable of being repaid; repayable.
Reimbursed (imp. & p. p.) of Reimburse
Reimbursing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reimburse
Reimburse (v. t.) To replace in a treasury or purse, as an equivalent for what has been taken, lost, or expended; to refund; to pay back; to restore; as, to reimburse the expenses of a war.
Reimburse (v. t.) To make restoration or payment of an equivalent to (a person); to pay back to; to indemnify; -- often reflexive; as, to reimburse one's self by successful speculation.
Reimbursement (n.) The act reimbursing.
Reimburser (n.) One who reimburses.
Reimplant (v. t.) To implant again.
Reimport (v. t.) To import again; to import what has been exported; to bring back.
Reimportation (n.) The act of reimporting; also, that which is reimported.
Reimportune (v. t.) To importune again.
Reimpose (v. t.) To impose anew.
Reimpregnate (v. t.) To impregnate again or anew.
Reimpress (v. t.) To impress anew.
Reimpression (n.) A second or repeated impression; a reprint.
Reimprint (v. t.) To imprint again.
Reimprison (v. t.) To imprison again.
Reimprisonment (n.) The act of reimprisoning, or the state of being reimprisoned.
Rein (n.) The strap of a bridle, fastened to the curb or snaffle on each side, by which the rider or driver governs the horse.
Rein (n.) Hence, an instrument or means of curbing, restraining, or governing; government; restraint.
Reined (imp. & p. p.) of Rein
Reining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rein
Rein (v. t.) To govern or direct with the reins; as, to rein a horse one way or another.
Rein (v. t.) To restrain; to control; to check.
Rein (v. i.) To be guided by reins.
Reinaugurate (v. t.) To inaugurate anew.
Reincit (v. t.) To incite again.
Reincorporate (v. t.) To incorporate again.
Reincrease (v. t.) To increase again.
Reincur (v. t.) To incur again.
Reindeer (n.) Any ruminant of the genus Rangifer, of the Deer family, found in the colder parts of both the Eastern and Western hemispheres, and having long irregularly branched antlers, with the brow tines palmate.
Reinduce (v. t.) To induce again.
Reinette (n.) A name given to many different kinds of apples, mostly of French origin.
Reinfect (v. t.) To infect again.
Reinfectious (a.) Capable of reinfecting.
Reinforce (v. t.) See Reenforce, v. t.
Reinforce (n.) See Reenforce, n.
Reinforcement (n.) See Reenforcement.
Reinfund (v. i.) To flow in anew.
Reingratiate (v. t.) To ingratiate again or anew.
Reinhabit (v. t.) To inhabit again.
Reinless (a.) Not having, or not governed by, reins; hence, not checked or restrained.
Reins (n. pl.) The kidneys; also, the region of the kidneys; the loins.
Reins (n. pl.) The inward impulses; the affections and passions; -- so called because formerly supposed to have their seat in the part of the body where the kidneys are.
Reinsert (v. t.) To insert again.
Reinsertion (n.) The act of reinserting.
Reinspect (v. t.) To inspect again.
Reinspection (n.) The act of reinspecting.
Reinspire (v. t.) To inspire anew.
Reinspirit (v. t.) To give fresh spirit to.
Reinstall (v. t.) To install again.
Reinstallment (n.) A renewed installment.
Reinstate (v. t.) To place again in possession, or in a former state; to restore to a state from which one had been removed; to instate again; as, to reinstate a king in the possession of the kingdom.
Reinstatement (n.) The act of reinstating; the state of being reinstated; re/stablishment.
Reinstation (n.) Reinstatement.
Reinstruct (v. t.) To instruct anew.
Reinsurance (n.) Insurance a second time or again; renewed insurance.
Reinsurance (n.) A contract by which an insurer is insured wholly or in part against the risk he has incurred in insuring somebody else. See Reassurance.
Reinsure (v. t.) To insure again after a former insuranse has ceased; to renew insurance on.
Reinsure (v. t.) To insure, as life or property, in favor of one who has taken an insurance risk upon it.
Reinsurer (n.) One who gives reinsurance.
Reintegrate (v. t.) To renew with regard to any state or quality; to restore; to bring again together into a whole, as the parts off anything; to reestablish; as, to reintegrate a nation.
Reintegration (n.) A renewing, or making whole again. See Redintegration.
Reinter (v. t.) To inter again.
Reinterrogate (v. t.) To interrogate again; to question repeatedly.
Reinthrone (v. t.) See Reenthrone.
Reinthronize (v. t.) To enthrone again.
Reintroduce (v. t.) To introduce again.
Reinvest (v. t.) To invest again or anew.
Reinvestigate (v. t.) To investigate again.
Reinvestment (n.) The act of investing anew; a second or repeated investment.
Reinvigorate (v. t.) To invigorate anew.
Reinvolve (v. t.) To involve anew.
Reis (n.) The word is used as a Portuguese designation of money of account, one hundred reis being about equal in value to eleven cents.
Reis (n.) A common title in the East for a person in authority, especially the captain of a ship.
Reis Effendi () A title formerly given to one of the chief Turkish officers of state. He was chancellor of the empire, etc.
Reissner's membrane () The thin membrane which separates the canal of the cochlea from the vestibular scala in the internal ear.
Reissuable (a.) Capable of being reissued.
Reissue (v. t. & i.) To issue a second time.
Reissue (n.) A second or repeated issue.
Reit (n.) Sedge; seaweed.
Reiter (n.) A German cavalry soldier of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries.
Reiterant (a.) Reiterating.
Reiterated (imp. & p. p.) of Reiterate
Reiterating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reiterate
Reiterate (v. t.) To repeat again and again; to say or do repeatedly; sometimes, to repeat.
Reiterate (a.) Reiterated; repeated.
Reiteratedly (adv.) Repeatedly.
Reiteration (n.) The act of reiterating; that which is reiterated.
Reiterative (n.) A word expressing repeated or reiterated action.
Reiterative (n.) A word formed from another, or used to form another, by repetition; as, dillydally.
Reiver (n.) See Reaver.
Rejected (imp. & p. p.) of Reject
Rejecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reject
Reject (v. t.) To cast from one; to throw away; to discard.
Reject (v. t.) To refuse to receive or to acknowledge; to decline haughtily or harshly; to repudiate.
Reject (v. t.) To refuse to grant; as, to reject a prayer or request.
Rejectable (a.) Capable of being, or that ought to be, rejected.
Rejectamenta (n. pl.) Things thrown out or away; especially, things excreted by a living organism.
Rejectaneous (a.) Not chosen or received; rejected.
Rejecter (n.) One who rejects.
Rejection (n.) Act of rejecting, or state of being rejected.
Rejectitious (a.) Implying or requiring rejection; rejectable.
Rejective (a.) Rejecting, or tending to reject.
Rejectment (n.) Act of rejecting; matter rejected, or thrown away.
Rejoiced (imp. & p. p.) of Rejoice
Rejoicing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rejoice
Rejoice (v. i.) To feel joy; to experience gladness in a high degree; to have pleasurable satisfaction; to be delighted.
Rejoice (v. t.) To enjoy.
Rejoice (v. t.) To give joy to; to make joyful; to gladden.
Rejoice (n.) The act of rejoicing.
Rejoicement (n.) Rejoicing.
Rejoicer (n.) One who rejoices.
Rejoicing (n.) Joy; gladness; delight.
Rejoicing (n.) The expression of joy or gladness.
Rejoicing (n.) That which causes to rejoice; occasion of joy.
Rejoicingly (adv.) With joi or exultation.
Rejoined (imp. & p. p.) of Rejoin
Rejoining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rejoin
Rejoin (v. t.) To join again; to unite after separation.
Rejoin (v. t.) To come, or go, again into the presence of; to join the company of again.
Rejoin (v. t.) To state in reply; -- followed by an object clause.
Rejoin (v. i.) To answer to a reply.
Rejoin (v. i.) To answer, as the defendant to the plaintiff's replication.
Rejoinder (n.) An answer to a reply; or, in general, an answer or reply.
Rejoinder (n.) The defendant's answer to the plaintiff's replication.
Rejoinder (v. i.) To make a rejoinder.
Rejoindure (n.) Act of joining again.
Rejoint (v. t.) To reunite the joints of; to joint anew.
Rejoint (v. t.) Specifically (Arch.), to fill up the joints of, as stones in buildings when the mortar has been dislodged by age and the action of the weather.
Rejolt (n.) A reacting jolt or shock; a rebound or recoil.
Rejolt (v. t.) To jolt or shake again.
Rejourn (v. t.) To adjourn; to put off.
Rejournment (n.) Adjournment.
Rejudge (v. t.) To judge again; to reexamine; to review; to call to a new trial and decision.
Rejuvenate (v. t.) To render young again.
Rejuvenation (n.) Rejuvenescence.
Rejuvenescence (n.) A renewing of youth; the state of being or growing young again.
Rejuvenescence (n.) A method of cell formation in which the entire protoplasm of an old cell escapes by rupture of the cell wall, and then develops a new cell wall. It is seen sometimes in the formation of zoospores, etc.
Rejuvenescency (n.) Rejuvenescence.
Rejuvenescent (a.) Becoming, or causing to become, rejuvenated; rejuvenating.
Rejuvenize (v. t.) To rejuvenate.
Rekindle (v. t. & i.) To kindle again.
Rekne (v. t.) To reckon.
Relade (v. t.) To lade or load again.
Relaid () imp. & p. p. of Relay.
Relais (n.) A narrow space between the foot of the rampart and the scarp of the ditch, serving to receive the earth that may crumble off or be washed down, and prevent its falling into the ditch.
Reland (v. t.) To land again; to put on land, as that which had been shipped or embarked.
Reland (v. i.) To go on shore after having embarked; to land again.
Relapsed (imp. & p. p.) of Relapse
Relapsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relapse
Relapse (v. i.) To slip or slide back, in a literal sense; to turn back.
Relapse (v. i.) To slide or turn back into a former state or practice; to fall back from some condition attained; -- generally in a bad sense, as from a state of convalescence or amended condition; as, to relapse into a stupor, into vice, or into barbarism; -- sometimes in a good sense; as, to relapse into slumber after being disturbed.
Relapse (v. i.) To fall from Christian faith into paganism, heresy, or unbelief; to backslide.
Relapse (v.) A sliding or falling back, especially into a former bad state, either of body or morals; backsliding; the state of having fallen back.
Relapse (v.) One who has relapsed, or fallen back, into error; a backslider; specifically, one who, after recanting error, returns to it again.
Relapser (n.) One who relapses.
Relapsing (a.) Marked by a relapse; falling back; tending to return to a former worse state.
Related (imp. & p. p.) of Relate
Relating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relate
Relate (v. t.) To bring back; to restore.
Relate (v. t.) To refer; to ascribe, as to a source.
Relate (v. t.) To recount; to narrate; to tell over.
Relate (v. t.) To ally by connection or kindred.
Relate (v. i.) To stand in some relation; to have bearing or concern; to pertain; to refer; -- with to.
Relate (v. i.) To make reference; to take account.
Related (p. p. & a.) Allied by kindred; connected by blood or alliance, particularly by consanguinity; as, persons related in the first or second degree.
Related (p. p. & a.) Standing in relation or connection; as, the electric and magnetic forcec are closely related.
Related (p. p. & a.) Narrated; told.
Related (p. p. & a.) Same as Relative, 4.
Relatedness (n.) The state or condition of being related; relationship; affinity.
Relater (n.) One who relates or narrates.
Relation (n.) The act of relating or telling; also, that which is related; recital; account; narration; narrative; as, the relation of historical events.
Relation (n.) The state of being related or of referring; what is apprehended as appertaining to a being or quality, by considering it in its bearing upon something else; relative quality or condition; the being such and such with regard or respect to some other thing; connection; as, the relation of experience to knowledge; the relation of master to servant.
Relation (n.) Reference; respect; regard.
Relation (n.) Connection by consanguinity or affinity; kinship; relationship; as, the relation of parents and children.
Relation (n.) A person connected by cosanguinity or affinity; a relative; a kinsman or kinswoman.
Relation (n.) The carrying back, and giving effect or operation to, an act or proceeding frrom some previous date or time, by a sort of fiction, as if it had happened or begun at that time. In such case the act is said to take effect by relation.
Relation (n.) The act of a relator at whose instance a suit is begun.
Relational (a.) Having relation or kindred; related.
Relational (a.) Indicating or specifying some relation.
Relationist (n.) A relative; a relation.
Relationship (n.) The state of being related by kindred, affinity, or other alliance.
Relative (a.) Having relation or reference; referring; respecting; standing in connection; pertaining; as, arguments not relative to the subject.
Relative (a.) Arising from relation; resulting from connection with, or reference to, something else; not absolute.
Relative (a.) Indicating or expressing relation; refering to an antecedent; as, a relative pronoun.
Relative (a.) Characterizing or pertaining to chords and keys, which, by reason of the identify of some of their tones, admit of a natural transition from one to the other.
Relative (n.) One who, or that which, relates to, or is considered in its relation to, something else; a relative object or term; one of two object or term; one of two objects directly connected by any relation.
Relative (n.) A person connected by blood or affinity; strictly, one allied by blood; a relation; a kinsman or kinswoman.
Relative (n.) A relative pronoun; a word which relates to, or represents, another word or phrase, called its antecedent; as, the relatives "who", "which", "that".
Relatively (adv.) In a relative manner; in relation or respect to something else; not absolutely.
Relativeness (n.) The state of being relative, or having relation; relativity.
Relativity (n.) The state of being relative; as, the relativity of a subject.
Relator (n.) One who relates; a relater.
Relator (n.) A private person at whose relation, or in whose behalf, the attorney-general allows an information in the nature of a quo warranto to be filed.
Relatrix (n.) A female relator.
Relaxed (imp. & p. p.) of Relax
Relaxing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relax
Relax (n.) To make lax or loose; to make less close, firm, rigid, tense, or the like; to slacken; to loosen; to open; as, to relax a rope or cord; to relax the muscles or sinews.
Relax (n.) To make less severe or rigorous; to abate the stringency of; to remit in respect to strenuousness, earnestness, or effort; as, to relax discipline; to relax one's attention or endeavors.
Relax (n.) Hence, to relieve from attention or effort; to ease; to recreate; to divert; as, amusement relaxes the mind.
Relax (n.) To relieve from constipation; to loosen; to open; as, an aperient relaxes the bowels.
Relax (v. i.) To become lax, weak, or loose; as, to let one's grasp relax.
Relax (v. i.) To abate in severity; to become less rigorous.
Relax (v. i.) To remit attention or effort; to become less diligent; to unbend; as, to relax in study.
Relax (n.) Relaxation.
Relax (a.) Relaxed; lax; hence, remiss; careless.
Relaxable (a.) Capable of being relaxed.
Relaxant (n.) A medicine that relaxes; a laxative.
Relaxation (n.) The act or process of relaxing, or the state of being relaxed; as, relaxation of the muscles; relaxation of a law.
Relaxation (n.) Remission from attention and effort; indulgence in recreation, diversion, or amusement.
Relaxative (a.) Having the quality of relaxing; laxative.
Relaxative (n.) A relaxant.
Relaid (imp. & p. p.) of Relay
Relaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relay
Relay (v. t.) To lay again; to lay a second time; as, to relay a pavement.
Relay (n.) A supply of anything arranged beforehand for affording relief from time to time, or at successive stages; provision for successive relief.
Relay (n.) A supply of horses placced at stations to be in readiness to relieve others, so that a trveler may proceed without delay.
Relay (n.) A supply of hunting dogs or horses kept in readiness at certain places to relive the tired dogs or horses, and to continue the pursuit of the game if it comes that way.
Relay (n.) A number of men who relieve others in carrying on some work.
Relay (n.) In various forms of telegraphic apparatus, a magnet which receives the circuit current, and is caused by it to bring into into action the power of a local battery for performing the work of making the record; also, a similar device by which the current in one circuit is made to open or close another circuit in which a current is passing.
Relbun (n.) The roots of the Chilian plant Calceolaria arachnoidea, -- used for dyeing crimson.
Releasable (a.) That may be released.
Release (v. t.) To lease again; to grant a new lease of; to let back.
Released (imp. & p. p.) of Release
Releasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Release
Release (n.) To let loose again; to set free from restraint, confinement, or servitude; to give liberty to, or to set at liberty; to let go.
Release (n.) To relieve from something that confines, burdens, or oppresses, as from pain, trouble, obligation, penalty.
Release (n.) To let go, as a legal claim; to discharge or relinquish a right to, as lands or tenements, by conveying to another who has some right or estate in possession, as when the person in remainder releases his right to the tenant in possession; to quit.
Release (n.) To loosen; to relax; to remove the obligation of; as, to release an ordinance.
Release (n.) The act of letting loose or freeing, or the state of being let loose or freed; liberation or discharge from restraint of any kind, as from confinement or bondage.
Release (n.) Relief from care, pain, or any burden.
Release (n.) Discharge from obligation or responsibility, as from debt, penalty, or claim of any kind; acquittance.
Release (n.) A giving up or relinquishment of some right or claim; a conveyance of a man's right in lands or tenements to another who has some estate in possession; a quitclaim.
Release (n.) The act of opening the exhaust port to allow the steam to escape.
Releasee (n.) One to whom a release is given.
Releasement (n.) The act of releasing, as from confinement or obligation.
Releaser (n.) One who releases, or sets free.
Releasor (n.) One by whom a release is given.
Relegated (imp. & p. p.) of Relegate
Relegating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relegate
Relegate (v. t.) To remove, usually to an inferior position; to consign; to transfer; specifically, to send into exile; to banish.
Relegation (n.) The act of relegating, or the state of being relegated; removal; banishment; exile.
Relented (imp. & p. p.) of Relent
Relenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relent
Relent (v. i.) To become less rigid or hard; to yield; to dissolve; to melt; to deliquesce.
Relent (v. i.) To become less severe or intense; to become less hard, harsh, cruel, or the like; to soften in temper; to become more mild and tender; to feel compassion.
Relent (v. t.) To slacken; to abate.
Relent (v. t.) To soften; to dissolve.
Relent (v. t.) To mollify ; to cause to be less harsh or severe.
Relent (n.) Stay; stop; delay.
Relentless (a.) Unmoved by appeals for sympathy or forgiveness; insensible to the distresses of others; destitute of tenderness; unrelenting; unyielding; unpitying; as, a prey to relentless despotism.
Relentment (n.) The act or process of relenting; the state of having relented.
Relesse (v. t.) To release.
Relessee (n.) See Releasee.
Relessor (n.) See Releasor.
Re-let (v. t.) To let anew, as a house.
Relevance (n.) Alt. of Relevancy
Relevancy (n.) The quality or state of being relevant; pertinency; applicability.
Relevancy (n.) Sufficiency to infer the conclusion.
Relevant (a.) Relieving; lending aid or support.
Relevant (a.) Bearing upon, or properly applying to, the case in hand; pertinent; applicable.
Relevant (a.) Sufficient to support the cause.
Relevantly (adv.) In a relevant manner.
Relevation (n.) A raising or lifting up.
Reliability (n.) The state or quality of being reliable; reliableness.
Reliable (a.) Suitable or fit to be relied on; worthy of dependance or reliance; trustworthy.
Reliance (n.) The act of relying, or the condition or quality of being reliant; dependence; confidence; trust; repose of mind upon what is deemed sufficient support or authority.
Reliance (n.) Anything on which to rely; dependence; ground of trust; as, the boat was a poor reliance.
Reliant (a.) Having, or characterized by, reliance; confident; trusting.
Relic (n.) That which remains; that which is left after loss or decay; a remaining portion; a remnant.
Relic (n.) The body from which the soul has departed; a corpse; especially, the body, or some part of the body, of a deceased saint or martyr; -- usually in the plural when referring to the whole body.
Relic (n.) Hence, a memorial; anything preserved in remembrance; as, relics of youthful days or friendships.
Relicly (adv.) In the manner of relics.
Relict (n.) A woman whose husband is dead; a widow.
Relicted (a.) Left uncovered, as land by recession of water.
Reliction (n.) A leaving dry; a recession of the sea or other water, leaving dry land; land left uncovered by such recession.
Relief (n.) The act of relieving, or the state of being relieved; the removal, or partial removal, of any evil, or of anything oppressive or burdensome, by which some ease is obtained; succor; alleviation; comfort; ease; redress.
Relief (n.) Release from a post, or from the performance of duty, by the intervention of others, by discharge, or by relay; as, a relief of a sentry.
Relief (n.) That which removes or lessens evil, pain, discomfort, uneasiness, etc.; that which gives succor, aid, or comfort; also, the person who relieves from performance of duty by taking the place of another; a relay.
Relief (n.) A fine or composition which the heir of a deceased tenant paid to the lord for the privilege of taking up the estate, which, on strict feudal principles, had lapsed or fallen to the lord on the death of the tenant.
Relief (n.) The projection of a figure above the ground or plane on which it is formed.
Relief (n.) The appearance of projection given by shading, shadow, etc., to any figure.
Relief (n.) The height to which works are raised above the bottom of the ditch.
Relief (n.) The elevations and surface undulations of a country.
Reliefful (a.) Giving relief.
Reliefless (a.) Destitute of relief; also, remediless.
Relier (n.) One who relies.
Relievable (a.) Capable of being relieved; fitted to recieve relief.
Relieved (imp. & p. p.) of Relieve
Relieving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relieve
Relieve (v. t.) To lift up; to raise again, as one who has fallen; to cause to rise.
Relieve (v. t.) To cause to seem to rise; to put in relief; to give prominence or conspicuousness to; to set off by contrast.
Relieve (v. t.) To raise up something in; to introduce a contrast or variety into; to remove the monotony or sameness of.
Relieve (v. t.) To raise or remove, as anything which depresses, weighs down, or crushes; to render less burdensome or afflicting; to alleviate; to abate; to mitigate; to lessen; as, to relieve pain; to relieve the wants of the poor.
Relieve (v. t.) To free, wholly or partly, from any burden, trial, evil, distress, or the like; to give ease, comfort, or consolation to; to give aid, help, or succor to; to support, strengthen, or deliver; as, to relieve a besieged town.
Relieve (v. t.) To release from a post, station, or duty; to put another in place of, or to take the place of, in the bearing of any burden, or discharge of any duty.
Relieve (v. t.) To ease of any imposition, burden, wrong, or oppression, by judicial or legislative interposition, as by the removal of a grievance, by indemnification for losses, or the like; to right.
Relievement (n.) The act of relieving, or the state of being relieved; relief; release.
Reliever (n.) One who, or that which, relieves.
Relieving (a.) Serving or tending to relieve.
Relievo (n.) See Relief, n., 5.
Relight (v. t.) To light or kindle anew.
Religieuse (n. m.) Alt. of Religieux
Religieux (n. m.) A person bound by monastic vows; a nun; a monk.
Religion (n.) The outward act or form by which men indicate their recognition of the existence of a god or of gods having power over their destiny, to whom obedience, service, and honor are due; the feeling or expression of human love, fear, or awe of some superhuman and overruling power, whether by profession of belief, by observance of rites and ceremonies, or by the conduct of life; a system of faith and worship; a manifestation of piety; as, ethical religions; monotheistic religions; natural religion; revealed religion; the religion of the Jews; the religion of idol worshipers.
Religion (n.) Specifically, conformity in faith and life to the precepts inculcated in the Bible, respecting the conduct of life and duty toward God and man; the Christian faith and practice.
Religion (n.) A monastic or religious order subject to a regulated mode of life; the religious state; as, to enter religion.
Religion (n.) Strictness of fidelity in conforming to any practice, as if it were an enjoined rule of conduct.
Religionary (a.) Relating to religion; pious; as, religionary professions.
Religionary (n.) Alt. of Religioner
Religioner (n.) A religionist.
Religionism (n.) The practice of, or devotion to, religion.
Religionism (n.) Affectation or pretense of religion.
Religionist (n.) One earnestly devoted or attached to a religion; a religious zealot.
Religionize (v. t.) To bring under the influence of religion.
Religionless (a.) Destitute of religion.
Religiosity (n.) The quality of being religious; religious feeling or sentiment; religiousness.
Religious (a.) Of or pertaining to religion; concerned with religion; teaching, or setting forth, religion; set apart to religion; as, a religious society; a religious sect; a religious place; religious subjects, books, teachers, houses, wars.
Religious (a.) Possessing, or conforming to, religion; pious; godly; as, a religious man, life, behavior, etc.
Religious (a.) Scrupulously faithful or exact; strict.
Religious (a.) Belonging to a religious order; bound by vows.
Religious (n.) A person bound by monastic vows, or sequestered from secular concern, and devoted to a life of piety and religion; a monk or friar; a nun.
Religiously (adv.) In a religious manner.
Religiousness (n.) The quality of being religious.
Relik (n.) Relic.
Relinquent (a.) Relinquishing.
Relinquent (n.) One who relinquishes.
Relinquished (imp. & p. p.) of Relinquish
Relinquishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relinquish
Relinquish (v. t.) To withdraw from; to leave behind; to desist from; to abandon; to quit; as, to relinquish a pursuit.
Relinquish (v. t.) To give up; to renounce a claim to; resign; as, to relinquish a debt.
Relinquisher (n.) One who relinquishes.
Relinquishment (n.) The act of relinquishing.
-ries (pl. ) of Reliquary
Reliquary (n.) A depositary, often a small box or casket, in which relics are kept.
Relique (n.) See Relic.
Reliquiae (n. pl.) Remains of the dead; organic remains; relics.
Reliquiae (n. pl.) Same as Induviae.
Reliquian (a.) Of or pertaining to a relic or relics; of the nature of a relic.
Reliquidate (v. t.) To liquidate anew; to adjust a second time.
Reliquidation (n.) A second or renewed liquidation; a renewed adjustment.
Relished (imp. & p. p.) of Relish
Relishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relish
Relish (v. t.) To taste or eat with pleasure; to like the flavor of; to partake of with gratification; hence, to enjoy; to be pleased with or gratified by; to experience pleasure from; as, to relish food.
Relish (v. t.) To give a relish to; to cause to taste agreeably.
Relish (v. i.) To have a pleasing or appetizing taste; to give gratification; to have a flavor.
Relish (n.) A pleasing taste; flavor that gratifies the palate; hence, enjoyable quality; power of pleasing.
Relish (n.) Savor; quality; characteristic tinge.
Relish (n.) A taste for; liking; appetite; fondness.
Relish (n.) That which is used to impart a flavor; specifically, something taken with food to render it more palatable or to stimulate the appetite; a condiment.
Relish (n.) The projection or shoulder at the side of, or around, a tenon, on a tenoned piece.
Relishable (a.) Capable of being relished; agreeable to the taste; gratifying.
Relive (v. i.) To live again; to revive.
Relive (v. t.) To recall to life; to revive.
Reload (v. t.) To load again, as a gun.
Reloan (n.) A second lending of the same thing; a renewal of a loan.
Relocate (v. t.) To locate again.
Relocation (n.) A second location.
Relocation (n.) Renewal of a lease.
Relodge (v. t.) To lodge again.
Relove (v. t.) To love in return.
Relucent (a.) Reflecting light; shining; glittering; glistening; bright; luminous; splendid.
Reluct (v. i.) To strive or struggle against anything; to make resistance; to draw back; to feel or show repugnance or reluctance.
Reluctance (n.) Alt. of Reluctancy
Reluctancy (n.) The state or quality of being reluctant; repugnance; aversion of mind; unwillingness; -- often followed by an infinitive, or by to and a noun, formerly sometimes by against.
Reluctant (a.) Striving against; opposed in desire; unwilling; disinclined; loth.
Reluctant (a.) Proceeding from an unwilling mind; granted with reluctance; as, reluctant obedience.
Reluctantly (adv.) In a reluctant manner.
Reluctate (v. i.) To struggle against anything; to resist; to oppose.
Reluctation (n.) Repugnance; resistance; reluctance.
Relumed (imp. & p. p.) of Relume
Reluming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relume
Relume (v. t.) To rekindle; to light again.
Relumined (imp. & p. p.) of Relumine
Relumining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Relumine
Relumine (v. t.) To light anew; to rekindle.
Relumine (v. t.) To illuminate again.
Relied (imp. & p. p.) of Rely
Relying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rely
Rely (v. i.) To rest with confidence, as when fully satisfied of the veracity, integrity, or ability of persons, or of the certainty of facts or of evidence; to have confidence; to trust; to depend; -- with on, formerly also with in.
Remade () imp. & p. p. of Remake.
Remained (imp. & p. p.) of Remain
Remaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Remain
Remain (v. i.) To stay behind while others withdraw; to be left after others have been removed or destroyed; to be left after a number or quantity has been subtracted or cut off; to be left as not included or comprised.
Remain (v. i.) To continue unchanged in place, form, or condition, or undiminished in quantity; to abide; to stay; to endure; to last.
Remain (v. t.) To await; to be left to.
Remain (n.) State of remaining; stay.
Remain (n.) That which is left; relic; remainder; -- chiefly in the plural.
Remain (n.) That which is left of a human being after the life is gone; relics; a dead body.
Remain (n.) The posthumous works or productions, esp. literary works, of one who is dead; as, Cecil's
Remainder (n.) Anything that remains, or is left, after the separation and removal of a part; residue; remnant.
Remainder (n.) The quantity or sum that is left after subtraction, or after any deduction.
Remainder (n.) An estate in expectancy, generally in land, which becomes an estate in possession upon the determination of a particular prior estate, created at the same time, and by the same instrument; for example, if land be conveyed to A for life, and on his death to B, A's life interest is a particuar estate, and B's interest is a remainder, or estate in remainder.
Remainder (a.) Remaining; left; left over; refuse.
Remainder-men (pl. ) of Remainder-man
Remainder-man (n.) One who has an estate after a particular estate is determined. See Remainder, n., 3.
Remake (v. t.) To make anew.
Remanded (imp. & p. p.) of Remand
Remanding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Remand
Remand (v. t.) To recommit; to send back.
Remand (n.) The act of remanding; the order for recommitment.
Remandment (n.) A remand.
Remanence (a.) Alt. of Remanency
Remanency (a.) The state of being remanent; continuance; permanence.
Remanent (a.) That which remains; a remnant; a residue.
Remanent (a.) Remaining; residual.
Remanet (n.) A case for trial which can not be tried during the term; a postponed case.
Re-mark (v. t.) To mark again, or a second time; to mark anew.
Remarked (imp. & p. p.) of Remark
Remarking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Remark
Remark (n.) To mark in a notable manner; to distinquish clearly; to make noticeable or conspicuous; to piont out.
Remark (n.) To take notice of, or to observe, mentally; as, to remark the manner of a speaker.
Remark (n.) To express in words or writing, as observed or noticed; to state; to say; -- often with a substantive clause; as, he remarked that it was time to go.
Remark (v. i.) To make a remark or remarks; to comment.
Remark (n.) Act of remarking or attentively noticing; notice or observation.
Remark (n.) The expression, in speech or writing, of something remarked or noticed; the mention of that which is worthy of attention or notice; hence, also, a casual observation, comment, or statement; as, a pertinent remark.
Remarkable (a.) Worthy of being remarked or noticed; noticeable; conspicuous; hence, uncommon; extraordinary.
Remarker (n.) One who remarks.
Remarriage (n.) A second or repeated marriage.
Remarry (v. t. & i.) To marry again.
Remast (v. t.) To furnish with a new mast or set of masts.
Remasticate (v. t.) To chew or masticate again; to chew over and over, as the cud.
Remastication (n.) The act of masticating or chewing again or repeatedly.
Remberge (n.) See Ramberge.
Remblai (n.) Earth or materials made into a bank after having been excavated.
Remble (v. t.) To remove.
Reme (n.) Realm.
Remean (v. t.) To give meaning to; to explain the meaning of; to interpret.
Remeant (a.) Coming back; returning.
Remeasure (v. t.) To measure again; to retrace.
Remede (n.) Remedy.
Remediable (a.) Capable of being remedied or cured.
Remedial (a.) Affording a remedy; intended for a remedy, or for the removal or abatement of an evil; as, remedial treatment.
Remedially (adv.) In a remedial manner.
Remediate (a.) Remedial.
Remediless (a.) Not admitting of a remedy; incapable of being restored or corrected; incurable; irreparable; as, a remediless mistake or loss.
Remediless (a.) Not answering as a remedy; ineffectual.
Remedies (pl. ) of Remedy
Remedy (n.) That which relieves or cures a disease; any medicine or application which puts an end to disease and restores health; -- with for; as, a remedy for the gout.
Remedy (n.) That which corrects or counteracts an evil of any kind; a corrective; a counteractive; reparation; cure; -- followed by for or against, formerly by to.
Remedy (n.) The legal means to recover a right, or to obtain redress for a wrong.
Remedied (imp. & p. p.) of Remedy
Remedying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Remedy
Remedy (n.) To apply a remedy to; to relieve; to cure; to heal; to repair; to redress; to correct; to counteract.
Remelt (v. t.) To melt again.
Remembered (imp. & p. p.) of Remember
Remembering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Remember
Remember (v. t.) To have ( a notion or idea) come into the mind again, as previously perceived, known, or felt; to have a renewed apprehension of; to bring to mind again; to think of again; to recollect; as, I remember the fact; he remembers the events of his childhood; I cannot remember dates.
Remember (v. t.) To be capable of recalling when required; to keep in mind; to be continually aware or thoughtful of; to preserve fresh in the memory; to attend to; to think of with gratitude, affection, respect, or any other emotion.
Remember (v. t.) To put in mind; to remind; -- also used reflexively and impersonally.
Remember (v. t.) To mention.
Remember (v. t.) To recall to the mind of another, as in the friendly messages, remember me to him, he wishes to be remembered to you, etc.
Remember (v. i.) To execise or have the power of memory; as, some remember better than others.
Rememberable (a.) Capable or worthy of being remembered.
Rememberer (n.) One who remembers.
Remembrance (n.) The act of remembering; a holding in mind, or bringing to mind; recollection.
Remembrance (n.) The state of being remembered, or held in mind; memory; recollection.
Remembrance (n.) Something remembered; a person or thing kept in memory.
Remembrance (n.) That which serves to keep in or bring to mind; a memorial; a token; a memento; a souvenir; a memorandum or note of something to be remembered.
Remembrance (n.) Something to be remembered; counsel; admoni//on; instruction.
Remembrance (n.) Power of remembering; reach of personal knowledge; period over which one's memory extends.
Remembrancer (n.) One who, or that which, serves to bring to, or keep in, mind; a memento; a memorial; a reminder.
Remembrancer (n.) A term applied in England to several officers, having various functions, their duty originally being to bring certain matters to the attention of the proper persons at the proper time.
Rememorate (v. i.) To recall something by means of memory; to remember.
Rememoration (n.) A recalling by the faculty of memory; remembrance.
Rememorative (a.) Tending or serving to remind.
Remenant (n.) A remnant.
Remercie (v. t.) Alt. of Remercy
Remercy (v. t.) To thank.
Remerge (v. i.) To merge again.
Remeve (v. t. & i.) Alt. of Remewe
Remewe (v. t. & i.) To remove.
Remiform (a.) Shaped like an oar.
Remiges (n. pl.) The quill feathers of the wings of a bird.
Remigrate (v. i.) To migrate again; to go back; to return.
Remigration (n.) Migration back to the place from which one came.
Remind (v. t.) To put (one) in mind of something; to bring to the remembrance of; to bring to the notice or consideration of (a person).
Reminder (n.) One who, or that which, reminds; that which serves to awaken remembrance.
Remindful (a.) Tending or adapted to remind; careful to remind.
Reminiscence (n.) The act or power of recalling past experience; the state of being reminiscent; remembrance; memory.
Reminiscence (n.) That which is remembered, or recalled to mind; a statement or narration of remembered experience; a recollection; as, pleasing or painful reminiscences.
Reminiscency (n.) Reminiscence.
Reminiscent (a.) Recalling to mind, or capable of recalling to mind; having remembrance; reminding one of something.
Reminiscent (n.) One who is addicted to indulging, narrating, or recording reminiscences.
Reminiscential (a.) Of or pertaining to reminiscence, or remembrance.
Remiped (a.) Having feet or legs that are used as oars; -- said of certain crustaceans and insects.
Remiped (n.) An animal having limbs like oars, especially one of certain crustaceans.
Remiped (n.) One of a group of aquatic beetles having tarsi adapted for swimming. See Water beetle.
Remised (imp. & p. p.) of Remise
Remising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Remise
Remise (v. t.) To send, give, or grant back; to release a claim to; to resign or surrender by deed; to return.
Remise (n.) A giving or granting back; surrender; return; release, as of a claim.
Remiss (a.) Not energetic or exact in duty or business; not careful or prompt in fulfilling engagements; negligent; careless; tardy; behindhand; lagging; slack; hence, lacking earnestness or activity; languid; slow.
Remiss (n.) The act of being remiss; inefficiency; failure.
Remissful (a.) Inclined to remit punishment; lenient; clement.
Remissibility (n.) The state or quality of being remissible.
Remissible (a.) Capable of being remitted or forgiven.
Remission (n.) The act of remitting, surrendering, resigning, or giving up.
Remission (n.) Discharge from that which is due; relinquishment of a claim, right, or obligation; pardon of transgression; release from forfeiture, penalty, debt, etc.
Remission (n.) Diminution of intensity; abatement; relaxation.
Remission (n.) A temporary and incomplete subsidence of the force or violence of a disease or of pain, as destinguished from intermission, in which the disease completely leaves the patient for a time; abatement.
Remission (n.) The act of sending back.
Remission (n.) Act of sending in payment, as money; remittance.
Remissive (a.) Remitting; forgiving; abating.
Remissly (adv.) In a remiss or negligent manner; carelessly.
Remissness (n.) Quality or state of being remiss.
Remissory (a.) Serving or tending to remit, or to secure remission; remissive.
Remitted (imp. & p. p.) of Remit
Remitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Remit
Remit (v. t.) To send back; to give up; to surrender; to resign.
Remit (v. t.) To restore.
Remit (v. t.) To transmit or send, esp. to a distance, as money in payment of a demand, account, draft, etc.; as, he remitted the amount by mail.
Remit (v. t.) To send off or away; hence: (a) To refer or direct (one) for information, guidance, help, etc. "Remitting them . . . to the works of Galen." Sir T. Elyot. (b) To submit, refer, or leave (something) for judgment or decision.
Remit (v. t.) To relax in intensity; to make less violent; to abate.
Remit (v. t.) To forgive; to pardon; to remove.
Remit (v. t.) To refrain from exacting or enforcing; as, to remit the performance of an obligation.
Remit (v. i.) To abate in force or in violence; to grow less intense; to become moderated; to abate; to relax; as, a fever remits; the severity of the weather remits.
Remit (v. i.) To send money, as in payment.
Remitment (n.) The act of remitting, or the state of being remitted; remission.
Remittal (n.) A remitting; a giving up; surrender; as, the remittal of the first fruits.
Remittance (n.) The act of transmitting money, bills, or the like, esp. to a distant place, as in satisfaction of a demand, or in discharge of an obligation.
Remittance (n.) The sum or thing remitted.
Remittee (n.) One to whom a remittance is sent.
Remittent (a.) Remitting; characterized by remission; having remissions.
Remitter (n.) One who remits.
Remitter (n.) One who pardons.
Remitter (n.) One who makes remittance.
Remitter (n.) The sending or placing back of a person to a title or right he had before; the restitution of one who obtains possession of property under a defective title, to his rights under some valid title by virtue of which he might legally have entered into possession only by suit.
Remittitur (n.) A remission or surrender, -- remittitur damnut being a remission of excess of damages.
Remittitur (n.) A sending back, as when a record is remitted by a superior to an inferior court.
Remittor (n.) One who makes a remittance; a remitter.
Remix (v. t.) To mix again or repeatedly.
Remnant (a.) Remaining; yet left.
Remnant (a.) That which remains after a part is removed, destroyed, used up, performed, etc.; residue.
Remnant (a.) A small portion; a slight trace; a fragment; a little bit; a scrap.
Remnant (a.) An unsold end of piece goods, as cloth, ribbons, carpets, etc.
Remodel (v. t.) To model or fashion anew; to change the form of.
Remodification (n.) The act of remodifying; the state of being remodified.
Remodify (v. t.) To modify again or anew; to reshape.
Remolade (n.) Alt. of Remoulad
Remoulad (n.) A kind of piquant sauce or salad dressing resembling mayonnaise.
Remold (v. t.) Alt. of Remould
Remould (v. t.) To mold or shape anew or again; to reshape.
Remollient (a.) Mollifying; softening.
Remonetization (n.) The act of remonetizing.
Remonetize (v. t.) To restore to use as money; as, to remonetize silver.
Remonstrance (n.) The act of remonstrating
Remonstrance (n.) A pointing out; manifestation; proof; demonstration.
Remonstrance (n.) Earnest presentation of reason in opposition to something; protest; expostulation.
Remonstrance (n.) Same as Monstrance.
Remonstrant (a.) Inclined or tending to remonstrate; expostulatory; urging reasons in opposition to something.
Remonstrant (n.) One who remonstrates
Remonstrant (n.) one of the Arminians who remonstrated against the attacks of the Calvinists in 1610, but were subsequently condemned by the decisions of the Synod of Dort in 1618. See Arminian.
Remonstrantly (adv.) In a remonstrant manner.
Remonstrated (imp. & p. p.) of Remonstrate
Remonstrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Remonstrate
Remonstrate (v. t.) To point out; to show clearly; to make plain or manifest; hence, to prove; to demonstrate.
Remonstrate (v. i.) To present and urge reasons in opposition to an act, measure, or any course of proceedings; to expostulate; as, to remonstrate with a person regarding his habits; to remonstrate against proposed taxation.
Remonstration (n.) The act of remonstrating; remonstrance.
Remonstrative (a.) Having the character of a remonstrance; expressing remonstrance.
Remonstrator (n.) One who remonstrates; a remonsrant.
Remontant (a.) Rising again; -- applied to a class of roses which bloom more than once in a season; the hybrid perpetual roses, of which the Jacqueminot is a well-known example.
Remontoir (n.) See under Escapement.
Remora (n.) Delay; obstacle; hindrance.
Remora (n.) Any one of several species of fishes belonging to Echeneis, Remora, and allied genera. Called also sucking fish.
Remora (n.) An instrument formerly in use, intended to retain parts in their places.
Remorate (v. t.) To hinder; to delay.
Remord (v. t.) To excite to remorse; to rebuke.
Remord (v. i.) To feel remorse.
Remordency (n.) Remorse; compunction; compassion.
Remorse (n.) The anguish, like gnawing pain, excited by a sense of guilt; compunction of conscience for a crime committed, or for the sins of one's past life.
Remorse (n.) Sympathetic sorrow; pity; compassion.
Remorsed (a.) Feeling remorse.
Remorseful (a.) Full of remorse.
Remorseful (a.) Compassionate; feeling tenderly.
Remorseful (a.) Exciting pity; pitiable.
Remorseless (a.) Being without remorse; having no pity; hence, destitute of sensibility; cruel; insensible to distress; merciless.
Remote (superl.) Removed to a distance; not near; far away; distant; -- said in respect to time or to place; as, remote ages; remote lands.
Remote (superl.) Hence, removed; not agreeing, according, or being related; -- in various figurative uses.
Remote (superl.) Not agreeing; alien; foreign.
Remote (superl.) Not nearly related; not close; as, a remote connection or consanguinity.
Remote (superl.) Separate; abstracted.
Remote (superl.) Not proximate or acting directly; primary; distant.
Remote (superl.) Not obvious or sriking; as, a remote resemblance.
Remote (superl.) Separated by intervals greater than usual.
Remotion (n.) The act of removing; removal.
Remotion (n.) The state of being remote; remoteness.
Remould (v. t.) See Remold.
Remount (v. t. & i.) To mount again.
Remount (n.) The opportunity of, or things necessary for, remounting; specifically, a fresh horse, with his equipments; as, to give one a remount.
Removable (a.) Admitting of being removed.
Removal (n.) The act of removing, or the state of being removed.
Removed (imp. & p. p.) of Remove
Removing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Remove
Remove (v. t.) To move away from the position occupied; to cause to change place; to displace; as, to remove a building.
Remove (v. t.) To cause to leave a person or thing; to cause to cease to be; to take away; hence, to banish; to destroy; to put an end to; to kill; as, to remove a disease.
Remove (v. t.) To dismiss or discharge from office; as, the President removed many postmasters.
Remove (v. i.) To change place in any manner, or to make a change in place; to move or go from one residence, position, or place to another.
Remove (n.) The act of removing; a removal.
Remove (n.) The transfer of one's business, or of one's domestic belongings, from one location or dwelling house to another; -- in the United States usually called a move.
Remove (n.) The state of being removed.
Remove (n.) That which is removed, as a dish removed from table to make room for something else.
Remove (n.) The distance or space through which anything is removed; interval; distance; stage; hence, a step or degree in any scale of gradation; specifically, a division in an English public school; as, the boy went up two removes last year.
Remove (n.) The act of resetting a horse's shoe.
Removed (a.) Changed in place.
Removed (a.) Dismissed from office.
Removed (a.) Distant in location; remote.
Removed (a.) Distant by degrees in relationship; as, a cousin once removed.
Remover (n.) One who removes; as, a remover of landmarks.
Remuable (a.) That may be removed; removable.
Remue (v. t.) To remove.
Remugient (a.) Rebellowing.
Remunerable (a.) Admitting, or worthy, of remuneration.
Remunerated (imp. & p. p.) of Remunerate
Remunerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Remunerate
Remunerate (v. t.) To pay an equivalent to for any service, loss, expense, or other sacrifice; to recompense; to requite; as, to remunerate men for labor.
Remuneration (n.) The act of remunerating.
Remuneration (n.) That which is given to remunerate; an equivalent given, as for services, loss, or sufferings.
Remunerative (a.) Affording remuneration; as, a remunerative payment for services; a remunerative business.
Remuneratory (a.) Remunerative.
Remurmur (v. t. & i.) To murmur again; to utter back, or reply, in murmurs.
Ren (v. t. & i.) See Renne.
Ren (n.) A run.
Renable (a.) Reasonable; also, loquacious.
Renaissance (n.) A new birth, or revival.
Renaissance (n.) The transitional movement in Europe, marked by the revival of classical learning and art in Italy in the 15th century, and the similar revival following in other countries.
Renaissance (n.) The style of art which prevailed at this epoch.
Renaissant (a.) Of or pertaining to the Renaissance.
Renal (a.) Of or pertaining to the kidneys; in the region of the kidneys.
Renal-portal (a.) Both renal and portal. See Portal.
Rename (v. t.) To give a new name to.
Renard (n.) A fox; -- so called in fables or familiar tales, and in poetry.
Renardine (a.) Of or pertaining to Renard, the fox, or the tales in which Renard is mentioned.
Renascence (n.) The state of being renascent.
Renascence (n.) Same as Renaissance.
Renascency (n.) State of being renascent.
Renascent (a.) Springing or rising again into being; being born again, or reproduced.
Renascent (a.) See Renaissant.
Renascible (a.) Capable of being reproduced; ablle to spring again into being.
Renate (a.) Born again; regenerate; renewed.
Renavigate (v. t.) To navigate again.
Renay (v. t.) To deny; to disown.
Rencontre (n.) Same as Rencounter, n.
Rencountered (imp. & p. p.) of Rencounter
Rencountering (p. pr. & vb/ n.) of Rencounter
Rencounter (v. t.) To meet unexpectedly; to encounter.
Rencounter (v. t.) To attack hand to hand.
Rencounter (v. i.) To meet unexpectedly; to encounter in a hostile manner; to come in collision; to skirmish.
Rencounter (n.) A meeting of two persons or bodies; a collision; especially, a meeting in opposition or contest; a combat, action, or engagement.
Rencounter (n.) A causal combat or action; a sudden contest or fight without premeditation, as between individuals or small parties.
Rent (imp. & p. p.) of Rend
Rending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rend
Rend (v. t.) To separate into parts with force or sudden violence; to tear asunder; to split; to burst; as, powder rends a rock in blasting; lightning rends an oak.
Rend (v. t.) To part or tear off forcibly; to take away by force.
Rend (v. i.) To be rent or torn; to become parted; to separate; to split.
Render (n.) One who rends.
Rendered (imp. & p. p.) of Render
Rendering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Render
Render (v. t.) To return; to pay back; to restore.
Render (v. t.) To inflict, as a retribution; to requite.
Render (v. t.) To give up; to yield; to surrender.
Render (v. t.) Hence, to furnish; to contribute.
Render (v. t.) To furnish; to state; to deliver; as, to render an account; to render judgment.
Render (v. t.) To cause to be, or to become; as, to render a person more safe or more unsafe; to render a fortress secure.
Render (v. t.) To translate from one language into another; as, to render Latin into English.
Render (v. t.) To interpret; to set forth, represent, or exhibit; as, an actor renders his part poorly; a singer renders a passage of music with great effect; a painter renders a scene in a felicitous manner.
Render (v. t.) To try out or extract (oil, lard, tallow, etc.) from fatty animal substances; as, to render tallow.
Render (v. t.) To plaster, as a wall of masonry, without the use of lath.
Render (v. i.) To give an account; to make explanation or confession.
Render (v. i.) To pass; to run; -- said of the passage of a rope through a block, eyelet, etc.; as, a rope renders well, that is, passes freely; also, to yield or give way.
Render (n.) A surrender.
Render (n.) A return; a payment of rent.
Render (n.) An account given; a statement.
Renderable (a.) Capable of being rendered.
Renderer (n.) One who renders.
Renderer (n.) A vessel in which lard or tallow, etc., is rendered.
Rendering (n.) The act of one who renders, or that which is rendered.
Rendering (n.) A version; translation; as, the rendering of the Hebrew text.
Rendering (n.) In art, the presentation, expression, or interpretation of an idea, theme, or part.
Rendering (n.) The act of laying the first coat of plaster on brickwork or stonework.
Rendering (n.) The coat of plaster thus laid on.
Rendering (n.) The process of trying out or extracting lard, tallow, etc., from animal fat.
Rendezvouses (pl. ) of Rendezvous
Rendezvous (n.) A place appointed for a meeting, or at which persons customarily meet.
Rendezvous (n.) Especially, the appointed place for troops, or for the ships of a fleet, to assemble; also, a place for enlistment.
Rendezvous (n.) A meeting by appointment.
Rendezvous (n.) Retreat; refuge.
Rendezvoused (imp. &. p. p.) of Rendezvous
Rendezvousing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rendezvous
Rendezvous (v. i.) To assemble or meet at a particular place.
Rendezvous (v. t.) To bring together at a certain place; to cause to be assembled.
Rendible (a.) Capable of being rent or torn.
Rendible (a.) Capable, or admitting, of being rendered.
Rendition (n.) The act of rendering; especially, the act of surrender, as of fugitives from justice, at the claim of a foreign government; also, surrender in war.
Rendition (n.) Translation; rendering; version.
Rendrock (n.) A kind of dynamite used in blasting.
Renegade (n.) One faithless to principle or party.
Renegade (n.) An apostate from Christianity or from any form of religious faith.
Renegade (n.) One who deserts from a military or naval post; a deserter.
Renegade (n.) A common vagabond; a worthless or wicked fellow.
Renegado (n.) See Renegade.
Renegat (n.) A renegade.
Renegation (n.) A denial.
Renege (v. t.) To deny; to disown.
Renege (v. i.) To deny.
Renege (v. i.) To revoke.
Renerve (v. t.) To nerve again; to give new vigor to; to reinvigorate.
Reneved (imp. & p. p.) of Renew
Renewing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Renew
Renew (v. t.) To make new again; to restore to freshness, perfection, or vigor; to give new life to; to rejuvenate; to re/stablish; to recreate; to rebuild.
Renew (v. t.) Specifically, to substitute for (an old obligation or right) a new one of the same nature; to continue in force; to make again; as, to renew a lease, note, or patent.
Renew (v. t.) To begin again; to recommence.
Renew (v. t.) To repeat; to go over again.
Renew (v. t.) To make new spiritually; to regenerate.
Renew (v. i.) To become new, or as new; to grow or begin again.
Renewability (n.) The quality or state of being renewable.
Renewable (a.) Capable of being renewed; as, a lease renewable at pleasure.
Renewal (n.) The act of renewing, or the state of being renewed; as, the renewal of a treaty.
Renewedly (adv.) Again; once more.
Renewedness (n.) The state of being renewed.
Renewer (n.) One who, or that which, renews.
Reneye (v. t.) To deny; to reject; to renounce.
Reng (n.) A rank; a row.
Reng (n.) A rung or round of a ladder.
Renidification (n.) The act of rebuilding a nest.
Reniform (a.) Having the form or shape of a kidney; as, a reniform mineral; a reniform leaf.
Renitence (n.) Alt. of Renitency
Renitency (n.) The state or quality of being renitent; resistance; reluctance.
Renitent (a.) Resisting pressure or the effect of it; acting against impulse by elastic force.
Renitent (a.) Persistently opposed.
Renne (v. t.) To plunder; -- only in the phrase "to rape and renne." See under Rap, v. t., to snatch.
Renne (v. i.) To run.
Renner (n.) A runner.
Rennet (n.) A name of many different kinds of apples. Cf. Reinette.
Rennet (v.) The inner, or mucous, membrane of the fourth stomach of the calf, or other young ruminant; also, an infusion or preparation of it, used for coagulating milk.
Renneted (a.) Provided or treated with rennet.
Renneting (n.) Same as 1st Rennet.
Rennin (n.) A milk-clotting enzyme obtained from the true stomach (abomasum) of a suckling calf. Mol. wt. about 31,000. Also called chymosin, rennase, and abomasal enzyme.
Renning (n.) See 2d Rennet.
Renomee (n.) Renown.
Renounced (imp. & p. p.) of Renounce
Renouncing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Renounce
Renounce (v. t.) To declare against; to reject or decline formally; to refuse to own or acknowledge as belonging to one; to disclaim; as, to renounce a title to land or to a throne.
Renounce (v. t.) To cast off or reject deliberately; to disown; to dismiss; to forswear.
Renounce (v. t.) To disclaim having a card of (the suit led) by playing a card of another suit.
Renounce (v. i.) To make renunciation.
Renounce (v. i.) To decline formally, as an executor or a person entitled to letters of administration, to take out probate or letters.
Renounce (n.) Act of renouncing.
Renouncement (n.) The act of disclaiming or rejecting; renunciation.
Renouncer (n.) One who renounces.
Renovate (v. t.) To make over again; to restore to freshness or vigor; to renew.
Renovation (n.) The act or process of renovating; the state of being renovated or renewed.
Renovator (n.) One who, or that which, renovates.
Renovel (v. t.) To renew; to renovate.
Renovelance (n.) Renewal.
Renowme (n.) Renown.
Renowmed (a.) Renowned.
Renown (v.) The state of being much known and talked of; exalted reputation derived from the extensive praise of great achievements or accomplishments; fame; celebrity; -- always in a good sense.
Renown (v.) Report of nobleness or exploits; praise.
Renown (v. t.) To make famous; to give renown to.
Renowned (a.) Famous; celebrated for great achievements, for distinguished qualities, or for grandeur; eminent; as, a renowned king.
Renownedly (adv.) With renown.
Renowner (n.) One who gives renown.
Renownful (a.) Having great renown; famous.
Renownless (a.) Without renown; inglorius.
Rensselaerite (n.) A soft, compact variety of talc,, being an altered pyroxene. It is often worked in a lathe into inkstands and other articles.
Rent (v. i.) To rant.
Rent () imp. & p. p. of Rend.
Rent (n.) An opening made by rending; a break or breach made by force; a tear.
Rent (n.) Figuratively, a schism; a rupture of harmony; a separation; as, a rent in the church.
Rent (v. t.) To tear. See Rend.
Rent (n.) Income; revenue. See Catel.
Rent (n.) Pay; reward; share; toll.
Rent (n.) A certain periodical profit, whether in money, provisions, chattels, or labor, issuing out of lands and tenements in payment for the use; commonly, a certain pecuniary sum agreed upon between a tenant and his landlord, paid at fixed intervals by the lessee to the lessor, for the use of land or its appendages; as, rent for a farm, a house, a park, etc.
Rented (imp. & p. p.) of Rent
Renting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rent
Rent (n.) To grant the possession and enjoyment of, for a rent; to lease; as, the owwner of an estate or house rents it.
Rent (n.) To take and hold under an agreement to pay rent; as, the tennant rents an estate of the owner.
Rent (v. i.) To be leased, or let for rent; as, an estate rents for five hundred dollars a year.
Rentable (a.) Capable of being rented, or suitable for renting.
Rentage (n.) Rent.
Rental (n.) A schedule, account, or list of rents, with the names of the tenants, etc.; a rent roll.
Rental (n.) A sum total of rents; as, an estate that yields a rental of ten thousand dollars a year.
Rente (n.) In France, interest payable by government on indebtedness; the bonds, shares, stocks, etc., which represent government indebtedness.
Renter (n.) One who rents or leases an estate; -- usually said of a lessee or tenant.
Rentered (imp. & p. p.) of Renter
Rentering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Renter
Renter (v. t.) To sew together so that the seam is scarcely visible; to sew up with skill and nicety; to finedraw.
Renter (v. t.) To restore the original design of, by working in new warp; -- said with reference to tapestry.
Renterer (n.) One who renters.
Rentier (n.) One who has a fixed income, as from lands, stocks, or the like.
Renumerate (v. t.) To recount.
Renunciation (n.) The act of renouncing.
Renunciation (n.) Formal declination to take out letters of administration, or to assume an office, privilege, or right.
Renunciatory (a.) Pertaining to renunciation; containing or declaring a renunciation; as, renunciatory vows.
Renverse (v. t.) To reverse.
Renverse (a.) Alt. of Renverse
Renverse (a.) Reversed; set with the head downward; turned contrary to the natural position.
Renversement (n.) A reversing.
Renvoy (v. t.) To send back.
Renvoy (n.) A sending back.
Reobtain (v. t.) To obtain again.
Reobtainable (a.) That may be reobtained.
Reoccupy (v. t.) To occupy again.
Reometer (n.) Same as Rheometer.
Reopen (v. t. & i.) To open again.
Reoppose (v. t.) To oppose again.
Reordain (v. t.) To ordain again, as when the first ordination is considered defective.
Reorder (v. t.) To order a second time.
Reordination (n.) A second ordination.
Reorganization (n.) The act of reorganizing; a reorganized existence; as, reorganization of the troops.
Reorganize (v. t. & i.) To organize again or anew; as, to reorganize a society or an army.
Reorient (a.) Rising again.
Reostat (n.) See Rheostat.
Reotrope (n.) See Rheotrope.
Rep (n.) A fabric made of silk or wool, or of silk and wool, and having a transversely corded or ribbed surface.
Rep (a.) Formed with a surface closely corded, or ribbed transversely; -- applied to textile fabrics of silk or wool; as, rep silk.
Repace (v. t.) To pace again; to walk over again in a contrary direction.
Repacify (v. t.) To pacify again.
Repack (v. t.) To pack a second time or anew; as, to repack beef; to repack a trunk.
Repacker (n.) One who repacks.
Repaganize (v. t.) To paganize anew; to bring back to paganism.
Repaid () imp. & p. p. of Repay.
Repaint (v. t.) To paint anew or again; as, to repaint a house; to repaint the ground of a picture.
Repair (v. i.) To return.
Repair (v. i.) To go; to betake one's self; to resort; ass, to repair to sanctuary for safety.
Repair (n.) The act of repairing or resorting to a place.
Repair (n.) Place to which one repairs; a haunt; a resort.
Repaired (imp. & p. p.) of Repair
Repairing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repair
Repair (v. t.) To restore to a sound or good state after decay, injury, dilapidation, or partial destruction; to renew; to restore; to mend; as, to repair a house, a road, a shoe, or a ship; to repair a shattered fortune.
Repair (v. t.) To make amends for, as for an injury, by an equivalent; to indemnify for; as, to repair a loss or damage.
Repair (n.) Restoration to a sound or good state after decay, waste, injury, or partial restruction; supply of loss; reparation; as, materials are collected for the repair of a church or of a city.
Repair (n.) Condition with respect to soundness, perfectness, etc.; as, a house in good, or bad, repair; the book is out of repair.
Repairable (a.) Reparable.
Repairer (n.) One who, or that which, repairs, restores, or makes amends.
Repairment (n.) Act of repairing.
Repand (a.) Having a slightly undulating margin; -- said of leaves.
Reparability (n.) The quality or state of being reparable.
Reparable (a.) Capable of being repaired, restored to a sound or good state, or made good; restorable; as, a reparable injury.
Reparably (adv.) In a reparable manner.
Reparation (n.) The act of renewing, restoring, etc., or the state of being renewed or repaired; as, the reparation of a bridge or of a highway; -- in this sense, repair is oftener used.
Reparation (n.) The act of making amends or giving satisfaction or compensation for a wrong, injury, etc.; also, the thing done or given; amends; satisfaction; indemnity.
Reparative (a.) Repairing, or tending to repair.
Reparative (n.) That which repairs.
Reparel (n.) A change of apparel; a second or different suit.
Repartee (n.) A smart, ready, and witty reply.
Reparteed (imp. & p. p.) of Repartee
Reparteeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repartee
Repartee (v. i.) To make smart and witty replies.
Repartimiento (n.) A partition or distribution, especially of slaves; also, an assessment of taxes.
Repartotion (n.) Another, or an additional, separation into parts.
Repass (v. t.) To pass again; to pass or travel over in the opposite direction; to pass a second time; as, to repass a bridge or a river; to repass the sea.
Repass (v. i.) To pass or go back; to move back; as, troops passing and repassing before our eyes.
Repassage (n.) The act of repassing; passage back.
Repassant (a.) Counterpassant.
Repast (n.) The act of taking food.
Repast (n.) That which is taken as food; a meal; figuratively, any refreshment.
Repast (v. t. & i.) To supply food to; to feast; to take food.
Repaster (n.) One who takes a repast.
Repasture (n.) Food; entertainment.
Repatriate (v. t.) To restore to one's own country.
Repatriation (n.) Restoration to one's country.
Repaid (imp. & p. p.) of Repay
Repaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repay
Repay (v. t.) To pay back; to refund; as, to repay money borrowed or advanced.
Repay (v. t.) To make return or requital for; to recompense; -- in a good or bad sense; as, to repay kindness; to repay an injury.
Repay (v. t.) To pay anew, or a second time, as a debt.
Repayable (a.) Capable of being, or proper to be , repaid; due; as, a loan repayable in ten days; services repayable in kind.
Repayment (n.) The act of repaying; reimbursement.
Repayment (n.) The money or other thing repaid.
Repealed (imp. & p. p.) of Repeal
Repealing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repeal
Repeal (v. t.) To recall; to summon again, as persons.
Repeal (v. t.) To recall, as a deed, will, law, or statute; to revoke; to rescind or abrogate by authority, as by act of the legislature; as, to repeal a law.
Repeal (v. t.) To suppress; to repel.
Repeal (n.) Recall, as from exile.
Repeal (n.) Revocation; abrogation; as, the repeal of a statute; the repeal of a law or a usage.
Repealability (n.) The quality or state of being repealable.
Repealable (a.) Capable of being repealed.
Repealer (n.) One who repeals; one who seeks a repeal; specifically, an advocate for the repeal of the Articles of Union between Great Britain and Ireland.
Repealment (n.) Recall, as from banishment.
Repeated (imp. & p. p.) of Repeat
Repeating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repeat
Repeat (v. t.) To go over again; to attempt, do, make, or utter again; to iterate; to recite; as, to repeat an effort, an order, or a poem.
Repeat (v. t.) To make trial of again; to undergo or encounter again.
Repeat (v. t.) To repay or refund (an excess received).
Repeat (n.) The act of repeating; repetition.
Repeat (n.) That which is repeated; as, the repeat of a pattern; that is, the repetition of the engraved figure on a roller by which an impression is produced (as in calico printing, etc.).
Repeat (n.) A mark, or series of dots, placed before and after, or often only at the end of, a passage to be repeated in performance.
Repeatedly (adv.) More than once; again and again; indefinitely.
Repeater (n.) One who, or that which, repeats.
Repeater (n.) A watch with a striking apparatus which, upon pressure of a spring, will indicate the time, usually in hours and quarters.
Repeater (n.) A repeating firearm.
Repeater (n.) An instrument for resending a telegraphic message automatically at an intermediate point.
Repeater (n.) A person who votes more than once at an election.
Repeater (n.) See Circulating decimal, under Decimal.
Repeater (n.) A pennant used to indicate that a certain flag in a hoist of signal is duplicated.
Repeating (a.) Doing the same thing over again; accomplishing a given result many times in succession; as, a repeating firearm; a repeating watch.
Repedation (n.) A stepping or going back.
Repelled (imp. & p. p.) of Repel
Repelling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repel
Repel (v. t.) To drive back; to force to return; to check the advance of; to repulse as, to repel an enemy or an assailant.
Repel (v. t.) To resist or oppose effectually; as, to repel an assault, an encroachment, or an argument.
Repel (v. i.) To act with force in opposition to force impressed; to exercise repulsion.
Repellence (n.) Alt. of Repellency
Repellency (n.) The principle of repulsion; the quality or capacity of repelling; repulsion.
Repellent (a.) Driving back; able or tending to repel.
Repellent (n.) That which repels.
Repellent (n.) A remedy to repel from a tumefied part the fluids which render it tumid.
Repellent (n.) A kind of waterproof cloth.
Repeller (n.) One who, or that which, repels.
Repent (a.) Prostrate and rooting; -- said of stems.
Repent (a.) Same as Reptant.
Repented (imp. & p. p.) of Repent
Repenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repent
Repent (v. i.) To feel pain, sorrow, or regret, for what one has done or omitted to do.
Repent (v. i.) To change the mind, or the course of conduct, on account of regret or dissatisfaction.
Repent (v. i.) To be sorry for sin as morally evil, and to seek forgiveness; to cease to love and practice sin.
Repent (v. t.) To feel pain on account of; to remember with sorrow.
Repent (v. t.) To feel regret or sorrow; -- used reflexively.
Repent (v. t.) To cause to have sorrow or regret; -- used impersonally.
Repentance (n.) The act of repenting, or the state of being penitent; sorrow for what one has done or omitted to do; especially, contrition for sin.
Repentant (a.) Penitent; sorry for sin.
Repentant (a.) Expressing or showing sorrow for sin; as, repentant tears; repentant ashes.
Repentant (n.) One who repents, especially one who repents of sin; a penitent.
Repentantly (adv.) In a repentant manner.
Repenter (n.) One who repents.
Repentingly (adv.) With repentance; penitently.
Repentless (a.) Unrepentant.
Repeople (v. t.) To people anew.
Reperception (n.) The act of perceiving again; a repeated perception of the same object.
Repercussed (imp. & p. p.) of Repercuss
Repercussing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repercuss
Repercuss (v. t.) To drive or beat back; hence, to reflect; to reverberate.
Repercussion (n.) The act of driving back, or the state of being driven back; reflection; reverberation; as, the repercussion of sound.
Repercussion (n.) Rapid reiteration of the same sound.
Repercussion (n.) The subsidence of a tumor or eruption by the action of a repellent.
Repercussion (n.) In a vaginal examination, the act of imparting through the uterine wall with the finger a shock to the fetus, so that it bounds upward, and falls back again against the examining finger.
Repercussive (a.) Tending or able to repercuss; having the power of sending back; causing to reverberate.
Repercussive (a.) Repellent.
Repercussive (a.) Driven back; rebounding; reverberated.
Repercussive (n.) A repellent.
Repertitious (a.) Found; gained by finding.
Repertoire (n.) A list of dramas, operas, pieces, parts, etc., which a company or a person has rehearsed and is prepared to perform.
Repertory (n.) A place in which things are disposed in an orderly manner, so that they can be easily found, as the index of a book, a commonplace book, or the like.
Repertory (n.) A treasury; a magazine; a storehouse.
Repertory (n.) Same as Repertoire.
Reperusal (n.) A second or repeated perusal.
Reperuse (v. t.) To peruse again.
Repetend (n.) That part of a circulating decimal which recurs continually, ad infinitum: -- sometimes indicated by a dot over the first and last figures; thus, in the circulating decimal .728328328 + (otherwise .7/8/), the repetend is 283.
Repetition (n.) The act of repeating; a doing or saying again; iteration.
Repetition (n.) Recital from memory; rehearsal.
Repetition (n.) The act of repeating, singing, or playing, the same piece or part a second time; reiteration of a note.
Repetition (n.) Reiteration, or repeating the same word, or the same sense in different words, for the purpose of making a deeper impression on the audience.
Repetition (n.) The measurement of an angle by successive observations with a repeating instrument.
Repetitional (a.) Alt. of Repetitionary
Repetitionary (a.) Of the nature of, or containing, repetition.
Repetitioner (n.) One who repeats.
Repetitious (a.) Repeating; containing repetition.
Repetitive (a.) Containing repetition; repeating.
Repetitor (n.) A private instructor.
Repine (v. i.) To fail; to wane.
Repine (v. i.) To continue pining; to feel inward discontent which preys on the spirits; to indulge in envy or complaint; to murmur.
Repine (n.) Vexation; mortification.
Repiner (n.) One who repines.
Repiningly (adv.) With repening or murmuring.
Repkie (n.) Any edible sea urchin.
Replace (v. t.) To place again; to restore to a former place, position, condition, or the like.
Replace (v. t.) To refund; to repay; to restore; as, to replace a sum of money borrowed.
Replace (v. t.) To supply or substitute an equivalent for; as, to replace a lost document.
Replace (v. t.) To take the place of; to supply the want of; to fulfull the end or office of.
Replace (v. t.) To put in a new or different place.
Replaceability (n.) The quality, state, or degree of being replaceable.
Replaceable (a.) Capable or admitting of being put back into a place.
Replaceable (a.) Admitting of having its place supplied by a like thing or an equivalent; as, the lost book is replaceable.
Replaceable (a.) Capable of being replaced (by), or of being exchanged (for); as, the hydrogen of acids is replaceable by metals or by basic radicals.
Replacement (n.) The act of replacing.
Replacement (n.) The removal of an edge or an angle by one or more planes.
Replait (v. t.) To plait or fold again; to fold, as one part over another, again and again.
Replant (v. t.) To plant again.
Replantable (a.) That may be planted again.
Replantation (n.) The act of planting again; a replanting.
Replead (v. t. & i.) To plead again.
Repleader (n.) A second pleading, or course of pleadings; also, the right of pleading again.
Replenished (imp. & p. p.) of Replenish
Replenishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Replenish
Replenish (v. t.) To fill again after having been diminished or emptied; to stock anew; hence, to fill completely; to cause to abound.
Replenish (v. t.) To finish; to complete; to perfect.
Replenish (v. i.) To recover former fullness.
Replenisher (n.) One who replenishes.
Replenishment (n.) The act of replenishing, or the state of being replenished.
Replenishment (n.) That which replenishes; supply.
Replete (a.) Filled again; completely filled; full; charged; abounding.
Replete (v. t.) To fill completely, or to satiety.
Repleteness (n.) The state of being replete.
Repletion (n.) The state of being replete; superabundant fullness.
Repletion (n.) Fullness of blood; plethora.
Repletive (a.) Tending to make replete; filling.
Repletory (a.) Repletive.
Repleviable (a.) Capable of being replevied.
Replevin (n.) A personal action which lies to recover possession of goods and chattle wrongfully taken or detained. Originally, it was a remedy peculiar to cases for wrongful distress, but it may generally now be brought in all cases of wrongful taking or detention.
Replevin (n.) The writ by which goods and chattels are replevied.
Replevin (v. t.) To replevy.
Replevisable (a.) Repleviable.
Replevied (imp. & p. p.) of Replevy
Replevying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Replevy
Replevy (v. t.) To take or get back, by a writ for that purpose (goods and chattels wrongfully taken or detained), upon giving security to try the right to them in a suit at law, and, if that should be determined against the plaintiff, to return the property replevied.
Replevy (v. t.) To bail.
Replevy (n.) Replevin.
Replica (v. & n.) A copy of a work of art, as of a picture or statue, made by the maker of the original.
Replica (v. & n.) Repetition.
Replicant (n.) One who replies.
Replicate (v. t.) To reply.
Replicate (a.) Alt. of Replicated
Replicated (a.) Folded over or backward; folded back upon itself; as, a replicate leaf or petal; a replicate margin of a shell.
Replication (n.) An answer; a reply.
Replication (n.) The reply of the plaintiff, in matters of fact, to the defendant's plea.
Replication (n.) Return or repercussion, as of sound; echo.
Replication (n.) A repetition; a copy.
Replier (n.) One who replies.
Replum (n.) The framework of some pods, as the cress, which remains after the valves drop off.
Replied (imp. & p. p.) of Reply
Replying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reply
Reply (v. i.) To make a return in words or writing; to respond; to answer.
Reply (v. i.) To answer a defendant's plea.
Reply (v. i.) Figuratively, to do something in return for something done; as, to reply to a signal; to reply to the fire of a battery.
Reply (v. t.) To return for an answer.
Replies (pl. ) of Reply
Reply (v. i.) That which is said, written, or done in answer to what is said, written, or done by another; an answer; a response.
Replyer (n.) See Replier.
Repolish (v. t.) To polish again.
Repone (v. t.) To replace.
Repopulation (n.) The act of repeopling; act of furnishing with a population anew.
Reported (imp. & p. p.) of Report
Report (v. t.) To refer.
Report (v. t.) To bring back, as an answer; to announce in return; to relate, as what has been discovered by a person sent to examine, explore, or investigate; as, a messenger reports to his employer what he has seen or ascertained; the committee reported progress.
Report (v. t.) To give an account of; to relate; to tell; to circulate publicly, as a story; as, in the common phrase, it is reported.
Report (v. t.) To give an official account or statement of; as, a treasurer reports the receipts and expenditures.
Report (v. t.) To return or repeat, as sound; to echo.
Report (v. t.) To return or present as the result of an examination or consideration of any matter officially referred; as, the committee reported the bill witth amendments, or reported a new bill, or reported the results of an inquiry.
Report (v. t.) To make minutes of, as a speech, or the doings of a public body; to write down from the lips of a speaker.
Report (v. t.) To write an account of for publication, as in a newspaper; as, to report a public celebration or a horse race.
Report (v. t.) To make a statement of the conduct of, especially in an unfavorable sense; as, to report a servant to his employer.
Report (v. i.) To make a report, or response, in respect of a matter inquired of, a duty enjoined, or information expected; as, the committee will report at twelve o'clock.
Report (v. i.) To furnish in writing an account of a speech, the proceedings at a meeting, the particulars of an occurrence, etc., for publication.
Report (v. i.) To present one's self, as to a superior officer, or to one to whom service is due, and to be in readiness for orders or to do service; also, to give information, as of one's address, condition, etc.; as, the officer reported to the general for duty; to report weekly by letter.
Report (v. t.) That which is reported.
Report (v. t.) An account or statement of the results of examination or inquiry made by request or direction; relation.
Report (v. t.) A story or statement circulating by common talk; a rumor; hence, fame; repute; reputation.
Report (v. t.) Sound; noise; as, the report of a pistol or cannon.
Report (v. t.) An official statement of facts, verbal or written; especially, a statement in writing of proceedings and facts exhibited by an officer to his superiors; as, the reports of the heads af departments to Congress, of a master in chancery to the court, of committees to a legislative body, and the like.
Report (v. t.) An account or statement of a judicial opinion or decision, or of case argued and determined in a court of law, chancery, etc.; also, in the plural, the volumes containing such reports; as, Coke's Reports.
Report (v. t.) A sketch, or a fully written account, of a speech, debate, or the proceedings of a public meeting, legislative body, etc.
Report (v. t.) Rapport; relation; connection; reference.
Reportable (a.) Capable or admitting of being reported.
Reportage (n.) SAme as Report.
Reporter (n.) One who reports.
Reporter (n.) An officer or person who makes authorized statements of law proceedings and decisions, or of legislative debates.
Reporter (n.) One who reports speeches, the proceedings of public meetings, news, etc., for the newspapers.
Reportingly (adv.) By report or common fame.
Reportorial (a.) Of or pertaining to a reporter or reporters; as, the reportorial staff of a newspaper.
Reposal (n.) The act or state of reposing; as, the reposal of a trust.
Reposal (n.) That on which one reposes.
Reposance (n.) Reliance.
Reposed (imp. & p. p.) of Repose
Reposing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repose
Repose (v.) To cause to stop or to rest after motion; hence, to deposit; to lay down; to lodge; to reposit.
Repose (v.) To lay at rest; to cause to be calm or quiet; to compose; to rest, -- often reflexive; as, to repose one's self on a couch.
Repose (v.) To place, have, or rest; to set; to intrust.
Repose (v. i.) To lie at rest; to rest.
Repose (v. i.) Figuratively, to remain or abide restfully without anxiety or alarms.
Repose (v. i.) To lie; to be supported; as, trap reposing on sand.
Repose (v.) A lying at rest; sleep; rest; quiet.
Repose (v.) Rest of mind; tranquillity; freedom from uneasiness; also, a composed manner or deportment.
Repose (v.) A rest; a pause.
Repose (v.) That harmony or moderation which affords rest for the eye; -- opposed to the scattering and division of a subject into too many unconnected parts, and also to anything which is overstrained; as, a painting may want repose.
Reposed (a.) Composed; calm; tranquil; at rest.
Reposeful (a.) Full of repose; quiet.
Reposer (n.) One who reposes.
Reposited (imp. & p. p.) of Reposit
Repositing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reposit
Reposit (v. t.) To cause to rest or stay; to lay away; to lodge, as for safety or preservation; to place; to store.
Reposition (n.) The act of repositing; a laying up.
Repositor (n.) An instrument employed for replacing a displaced organ or part.
Repository (n.) A place where things are or may be reposited, or laid up, for safety or preservation; a depository.
Repossess (v. t.) To possess again; as, to repossess the land.
Repossession (n.) The act or the state of possessing again.
Reposure (n.) Rest; quiet.
Repour (v. t.) To pour again.
Repousse (a.) Formed in relief, as a pattern on metal.
Repousse (a.) Ornamented with patterns in relief made by pressing or hammering on the reverse side; -- said of thin metal, or of a vessel made of thin metal.
Repousse (n.) Repousse work.
Reprefe (n.) Reproof.
Reprehended (imp. & p. p.) of Reprehend
Reprehending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reprehend
Reprehend (v. t.) To reprove or reprimand with a view of restraining, checking, or preventing; to make charge of fault against; to disapprove of; to chide; to blame; to censure.
Reprehender (n.) One who reprehends.
Reprehensible (a.) Worthy of reprehension; culpable; censurable; blamable.
Reprehension (n.) Reproof; censure; blame; disapproval.
Reprehensive (a.) Containing reprehension; conveying reproof.
Reprehensory (a.) Containing reproof; reprehensive; as, reprehensory complaint.
Re-present (v. t.) To present again; as, to re-present the points of an argument.
Represent (v. t.) To present again or anew; to present by means of something standing in the place of; to exhibit the counterpart or image of; to typify.
Represent (v. t.) To portray by pictoral or plastic art; to delineate; as, to represent a landscape in a picture, a horse in bronze, and the like.
Represent (v. t.) To portray by mimicry or action of any kind; to act the part or character of; to personate; as, to represent Hamlet.
Represent (v. t.) To stand in the place of; to supply the place, perform the duties, exercise the rights, or receive the share, of; to speak and act with authority in behalf of; to act the part of (another); as, an heir represents his ancestor; an attorney represents his client in court; a member of Congress represents his district in Congress.
Represent (v. t.) To exhibit to another mind in language; to show; to give one's own impressions and judgement of; to bring before the mind; to set forth; sometimes, to give an account of; to describe.
Represent (v. t.) To serve as a sign or symbol of; as, mathematical symbols represent quantities or relations; words represent ideas or things.
Represent (v. t.) To bring a sensation of into the mind or sensorium; to cause to be known, felt, or apprehended; to present.
Represent (v. t.) To form or image again in consciousness, as an object of cognition or apprehension (something which was originally apprehended by direct presentation). See Presentative, 3.
Representable (a.) Capable of being represented.
Representance (n.) Representation; likeness.
Representant (a.) Appearing or acting for another; representing.
Representant (n.) A representative.
Representation (n.) The act of representing, in any sense of the verb.
Representation (n.) That which represents.
Representation (n.) A likeness, a picture, or a model; as, a representation of the human face, or figure, and the like.
Representation (n.) A dramatic performance; as, a theatrical representation; a representation of Hamlet.
Representation (n.) A description or statement; as, the representation of an historian, of a witness, or an advocate.
Representation (n.) The body of those who act as representatives of a community or society; as, the representation of a State in Congress.
Representation (n.) Any collateral statement of fact, made orally or in writing, by which an estimate of the risk is affected, or either party is influenced.
Representation (n.) The state of being represented.
Re-presentation (n.) The act of re-presenting, or the state of being presented again; a new presentation; as, re-presentation of facts previously stated.
Representationary (a.) Implying representation; representative.
Representative (a.) Fitted to represent; exhibiting a similitude.
Representative (a.) Bearing the character or power of another; acting for another or others; as, a council representative of the people.
Representative (a.) Conducted by persons chosen to represent, or act as deputies for, the people; as, a representative government.
Representative (a.) Serving or fitted to present the full characters of the type of a group; typical; as, a representative genus in a family.
Representative (a.) Similar in general appearance, structure, and habits, but living in different regions; -- said of certain species and varieties.
Representative (a.) Giving, or existing as, a transcript of what was originally presentative knowledge; as, representative faculties; representative knowledge. See Presentative, 3 and Represent, 8.
Representative (n.) One who, or that which, represents (anything); that which exhibits a likeness or similitude.
Representative (n.) An agent, deputy, or substitute, who supplies the place of another, or others, being invested with his or their authority.
Representative (n.) One who represents, or stands in the place of, another.
Representative (n.) A member of the lower or popular house in a State legislature, or in the national Congress.
Representative (n.) That which presents the full character of the type of a group.
Representative (n.) A species or variety which, in any region, takes the place of a similar one in another region.
Representatively (adv.) In a representative manner; vicariously.
Representativeness (n.) The quality or state of being representative.
Representer (n.) One who shows, exhibits, or describes.
Representer (n.) A representative.
Representment (n.) Representation.
Repress (v. t.) To press again.
Repress (v. t.) To press back or down effectually; to crush down or out; to quell; to subdue; to supress; as, to repress sedition or rebellion; to repress the first risings of discontent.
Repress (v. t.) Hence, to check; to restrain; to keep back.
Repress (n.) The act of repressing.
Represser (n.) One who, or that which, represses.
Repressible (a.) Capable of being repressed.
Repression (n.) The act of repressing, or state of being repressed; as, the repression of evil and evil doers.
Repression (n.) That which represses; check; restraint.
Repressive (a.) Having power, or tending, to repress; as, repressive acts or measures.
Reprevable (a.) Reprovable.
Repreve (v. t.) To reprove.
Repreve (n.) Reproof.
Repriefe (n.) Repreve.
Reprieval (n.) Reprieve.
Reprieved (imp. & p. p.) of Reprieve
Reprieving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reprieve
Reprieve (v. t.) To delay the punishment of; to suspend the execution of sentence on; to give a respite to; to respite; as, to reprieve a criminal for thirty days.
Reprieve (v. t.) To relieve for a time, or temporarily.
Reprieve (n.) A temporary suspension of the execution of a sentence, especially of a sentence of death.
Reprieve (n.) Interval of ease or relief; respite.
Reprimand (n.) Severe or formal reproof; reprehension, private or public.
Reprimanded (imp. & p. p.) of Reprimand
Reprimanding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reprimand
Reprimand (n.) To reprove severely; to reprehend; to chide for a fault; to consure formally.
Reprimand (n.) To reprove publicly and officially, in execution of a sentence; as, the court ordered him to be reprimanded.
Reprimander (n.) One who reprimands.
Reprimer (n.) A machine or implement for applying fresh primers to spent cartridge shells, so that the shells be used again.
Reprint (v. t.) To print again; to print a second or a new edition of.
Reprint (v. t.) To renew the impression of.
Reprint (n.) A second or a new impression or edition of any printed work; specifically, the publication in one country of a work previously published in another.
Reprinter (n.) One who reprints.
Reprisal (n.) The act of taking from an enemy by way of reteliation or indemnity.
Reprisal (n.) Anything taken from an enemy in retaliation.
Reprisal (n.) The act of retorting on an enemy by inflicting suffering or death on a prisoner taken from him, in retaliation for an act of inhumanity.
Reprisal (n.) Any act of retaliation.
Reprise (n.) A taking by way of retaliation.
Reprise (n.) Deductions and duties paid yearly out of a manor and lands, as rent charge, rent seck, pensions, annuities, and the like.
Reprise (n.) A ship recaptured from an enemy or from a pirate.
Reprise (v. t.) To take again; to retake.
Reprise (v. t.) To recompense; to pay.
Repristinate (v. t.) To restore to an original state.
Repristination (n.) Restoration to an original state; renewal of purity.
Reprive (v. t.) To take back or away.
Reprive (v. t.) To reprieve.
Reprize (v. t.) See Reprise.
Reprizes (n. pl.) See Reprise, n., 2.
Reproached (imp. & p. p.) of Reproach
Reproaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reproach
Reproach (v. t.) To come back to, or come home to, as a matter of blame; to bring shame or disgrace upon; to disgrace.
Reproach (v. t.) To attribute blame to; to allege something disgraceful against; to charge with a fault; to censure severely or contemptuously; to upbraid.
Reproach (v.) The act of reproaching; censure mingled with contempt; contumelious or opprobrious language toward any person; abusive reflections; as, severe reproach.
Reproach (v.) A cause of blame or censure; shame; disgrace.
Reproach (v.) An object of blame, censure, scorn, or derision.
Reproachablr (a.) Deserving reproach; censurable.
Reproachablr (a.) Opprobrius; scurrilous.
Reproacher (n.) One who reproaches.
Reproachful (a.) Expressing or containing reproach; upbraiding; opprobrious; abusive.
Reproachful (a.) Occasioning or deserving reproach; shameful; base; as, a reproachful life.
Reproachless (a.) Being without reproach.
Reprobacy (n.) Reprobation.
Reprobance (n.) Reprobation.
Reprobate (a.) Not enduring proof or trial; not of standard purity or fineness; disallowed; rejected.
Reprobate (a.) Abandoned to punishment; hence, morally abandoned and lost; given up to vice; depraved.
Reprobate (a.) Of or pertaining to one who is given up to wickedness; as, reprobate conduct.
Reprobate (n.) One morally abandoned and lost.
Reprobated (imp. & p. p.) of Reprobate
Reprobating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reprobate
Reprobate (v. t.) To disapprove with detestation or marks of extreme dislike; to condemn as unworthy; to disallow; to reject.
Reprobate (v. t.) To abandon to punishment without hope of pardon.
Reprobateness (n.) The state of being reprobate.
Reprobater (n.) One who reprobates.
Reprobation (n.) The act of reprobating; the state of being reprobated; strong disapproval or censure.
Reprobation (n.) The predestination of a certain number of the human race as reprobates, or objects of condemnation and punishment.
Reprobationer (n.) One who believes in reprobation. See Reprobation, 2.
Reprobative (a.) Of or pertaining to reprobation; expressing reprobation.
Reprobatory (a.) Reprobative.
Reproduce (v. t.) To produce again.
Reproduce (v. t.) To bring forward again; as, to reproduce a witness; to reproduce charges; to reproduce a play.
Reproduce (v. t.) To cause to exist again.
Reproduce (v. t.) To produce again, by generation or the like; to cause the existence of (something of the same class, kind, or nature as another thing); to generate or beget, as offspring; as, to reproduce a rose; some animals are reproduced by gemmation.
Reproduce (v. t.) To make an image or other representation of; to portray; to cause to exist in the memory or imagination; to make a copy of; as, to reproduce a person's features in marble, or on canvas; to reproduce a design.
Reproducer (n.) One who, or that which, reproduces.
Reproduction (n.) The act or process of reproducing; the state of being reproduced
Reproduction (n.) the process by which plants and animals give rise to offspring.
Reproduction (n.) That which is reproduced.
Reproductive (a.) Tending, or pertaining, to reproduction; employed in reproduction.
Reproductory (a.) Reproductive.
Reproof (n.) Refutation; confutation; contradiction.
Reproof (n.) An expression of blame or censure; especially, blame expressed to the face; censure for a fault; chiding; reproach.
Reprovable (a.) Worthy of reproof or censure.
Re proval (n.) Reproof.
Reproved (imp. & p. p.) of Reprove
Reproving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reprove
Reprove (v. t.) To convince.
Reprove (v. t.) To disprove; to refute.
Reprove (v. t.) To chide to the face as blameworthy; to accuse as guilty; to censure.
Reprove (v. t.) To express disapprobation of; as, to reprove faults.
Reprover (n.) One who, or that which, reproves.
Reprovingly (adv.) In a reproving manner.
Reprune (v. t.) To prune again or anew.
Rep-silver (n.) Money anciently paid by servile tenants to their lord, in lieu of the customary service of reaping his corn or grain.
Reptant (a.) Same as Repent.
Reptant (a.) Creeping; crawling; -- said of reptiles, worms, etc.
Reptantia (n. pl.) A division of gastropods; the Pectinibranchiata.
Reptation (n.) The act of creeping.
Reptatory (a.) Creeping.
Reptile (a.) Creeping; moving on the belly, or by means of small and short legs.
Reptile (a.) Hence: Groveling; low; vulgar; as, a reptile race or crew; reptile vices.
Reptile (n.) An animal that crawls, or moves on its belly, as snakes,, or by means of small, short legs, as lizards, and the like.
Reptile (n.) One of the Reptilia, or one of the Amphibia.
Reptile (n.) A groveling or very mean person.
Reptilia (n. pl.) A class of air-breathing oviparous vertebrates, usually covered with scales or bony plates. The heart generally has two auricles and one ventricle. The development of the young is the same as that of birds.
Reptilian (a.) Belonging to the reptiles.
Reptilian (n.) One of the Reptilia; a reptile.
Republic (a.) Common weal.
Republic (a.) A state in which the sovereign power resides in the whole body of the people, and is exercised by representatives elected by them; a commonwealth. Cf. Democracy, 2.
Republican (a.) Of or pertaining to a republic.
Republican (a.) Consonant with the principles of a republic; as, republican sentiments or opinions; republican manners.
Republican (n.) One who favors or prefers a republican form of government.
Republican (n.) A member of the Republican party.
Republican (n.) The American cliff swallow. The cliff swallows build their nests side by side, many together.
Republican (n.) A South African weaver bird (Philetaerus socius). These weaver birds build many nests together, under a large rooflike shelter, which they make of straw.
Republicanism (n.) A republican form or system of government; the principles or theory of republican government.
Republicanism (n.) Attachment to, or political sympathy for, a republican form of government.
Republicanism (n.) The principles and policy of the Republican party, so called
Republicanized (imp. & p. p.) of Republicanize
Republicanizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Republicanize
Republicanize (v. t.) To change, as a state, into a republic; to republican principles; as, France was republicanized; to republicanize the rising generation.
Republicate (v. t.) To make public again; to republish.
Republication (n.) A second publication, or a new publication of something before published, as of a former will, of a volume already published, or the like; specifically, the publication in one country of a work first issued in another; a reprint.
Republished (imp. & p. p.) of Republish
Republishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Republish
Republish (v. t.) To publish anew; specifically, to publish in one country (a work first published in another); also, to revive (a will) by re/xecution or codicil.
Republisher (n.) One who republishes.
Repudiable (a.) Admitting of repudiation; fit or proper to be put away.
Repudiated (imp. & p. p.) of Repudiate
Repudiating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repudiate
Repudiate (v. t.) To cast off; to disavow; to have nothing to do with; to renounce; to reject.
Repudiate (v. t.) To divorce, put away, or discard, as a wife, or a woman one has promised to marry.
Repudiate (v. t.) To refuse to acknowledge or to pay; to disclaim; as, the State has repudiated its debts.
Repudiation (n.) The act of repudiating, or the state of being repuddiated; as, the repudiation of a doctrine, a wife, a debt, etc.
Repudiation (n.) One who favors repudiation, especially of a public debt.
Repudiator (n.) One who repudiates.
Repugn (v. t.) To fight against; to oppose; to resist.
Repugnable (a.) Capable of being repugned or resisted.
Repugnance (n.) Alt. of Repugnancy
Repugnancy (n.) The state or condition of being repugnant; opposition; contrariety; especially, a strong instinctive antagonism; aversion; reluctance; unwillingness, as of mind, passions, principles, qualities, and the like.
Repugnant (a.) Disposed to fight against; hostile; at war with; being at variance; contrary; inconsistent; refractory; disobedient; also, distasteful in a high degree; offensive; -- usually followed by to, rarely and less properly by with; as, all rudeness was repugnant to her nature.
Repugnantly (adv.) In a repugnant manner.
Repugnate (v. t.) To oppose; to fight against.
Repugner (n.) One who repugns.
Repullulate (v. i.) To bud again.
Repullulation (n.) The act of budding again; the state of having budded again.
Repulsed (imp. & p. p.) of Repulse
Repulsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repulse
Repulse (v. t.) To repel; to beat or drive back; as, to repulse an assault; to repulse the enemy.
Repulse (v. t.) To repel by discourtesy, coldness, or denial; to reject; to send away; as, to repulse a suitor or a proffer.
Repulse (n.) The act of repelling or driving back; also, the state of being repelled or driven back.
Repulse (n.) Figuratively: Refusal; denial; rejection; failure.
Repulseless (a.) Not capable of being repulsed.
Repulser (n.) One who repulses, or drives back.
Repulsion (n.) The act of repulsing or repelling, or the state of being repulsed or repelled.
Repulsion (n.) A feeling of violent offence or disgust; repugnance.
Repulsion (n.) The power, either inherent or due to some physical action, by which bodies, or the particles of bodies, are made to recede from each other, or to resist each other's nearer approach; as, molecular repulsion; electrical repulsion.
Repulsive (a.) Serving, or able, to repulse; repellent; as, a repulsive force.
Repulsive (a.) Cold; forbidding; offensive; as, repulsive manners.
Repulsory (a.) Repulsive; driving back.
Repurchase (v. t.) To buy back or again; to regain by purchase.
Repurchase (n.) The act of repurchasing.
Repurify (v. t.) To purify again.
Reputable (a.) Having, or worthy of, good repute; held in esteem; honorable; praiseworthy; as, a reputable man or character; reputable conduct.
Reputation (v. t.) The estimation in which one is held; character in public opinion; the character attributed to a person, thing, or action; repute.
Reputation (v. t.) The character imputed to a person in the community in which he lives. It is admissible in evidence when he puts his character in issue, or when such reputation is otherwise part of the issue of a case.
Reputation (v. t.) Specifically: Good reputation; favorable regard; public esteem; general credit; good name.
Reputation (v. t.) Account; value.
Reputatively (adv.) By repute.
Reputed (imp. & p. p.) of Repute
Reputing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Repute
Repute (v. t.) To hold in thought; to account; to estimate; to hold; to think; to reckon.
Repute (n.) Character reputed or attributed; reputation, whether good or bad; established opinion; public estimate.
Repute (n.) Specifically: Good character or reputation; credit or honor derived from common or public opinion; -- opposed to disrepute.
Reputedly (adv.) In common opinion or estimation; by repute.
Reputeless (a.) Not having good repute; disreputable; disgraceful; inglorius.
Requere (v. t.) To require.
Request (n.) The act of asking for anything desired; expression of desire or demand; solicitation; prayer; petition; entreaty.
Request (n.) That which is asked for or requested.
Request (n.) A state of being desired or held in such estimation as to be sought after or asked for; demand.
Requested (imp. & p. p.) of Request
Requesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Request
Request (v. t.) To ask for (something); to express desire ffor; to solicit; as, to request his presence, or a favor.
Request (v. t.) To address with a request; to ask.
Requester (n.) One who requests; a petitioner.
Requicken (v. t.) To quicken anew; to reanimate; to give new life to.
Requiem (n.) A mass said or sung for the repose of a departed soul.
Requiem (n.) Any grand musical composition, performed in honor of a deceased person.
Requiem (n.) Rest; quiet; peace.
Requietory (n.) A sepulcher.
Requin (n.) The man-eater, or white shark (Carcharodon carcharias); -- so called on account of its causing requiems to be sung.
Requirable (a.) Capable of being required; proper to be required.
Required (imp. & p. p.) of Require
Requiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Require
Require (v. t.) To demand; to insist upon having; to claim as by right and authority; to exact; as, to require the surrender of property.
Require (v. t.) To demand or exact as indispensable; to need.
Require (v. t.) To ask as a favor; to request.
Requirement (n.) The act of requiring; demand; requisition.
Requirement (n.) That which is required; an imperative or authoritative command; an essential condition; something needed or necessary; a need.
Requirer (n.) One who requires.
Requisite (n.) That which is required, or is necessary; something indispensable.
Requisite (a.) Required by the nature of things, or by circumstances; so needful that it can not be dispensed with; necessary; indispensable.
Requisition (n.) The act of requiring, as of right; a demand or application made as by authority.
Requisition (n.) A formal demand made by one state or government upon another for the surrender or extradition of a fugitive from justice.
Requisition (n.) A notarial demand of a debt.
Requisition (n.) A demand by the invader upon the people of an invaded country for supplies, as of provision, forage, transportation, etc.
Requisition (n.) A formal application by one officer to another for things needed in the public service; as, a requisition for clothing, troops, or money.
Requisition (n.) That which is required by authority; especially, a quota of supplies or necessaries.
Requisition (n.) A written or normal call; an invitation; a summons; as, a reqisition for a public meeting.
Requisition (v. t.) To make a reqisition on or for; as, to requisition a district for forage; to requisition troops.
Requisition (v. t.) To present a requisition to; to summon request; as, to requisition a person to be a candidate.
Requisitionist (n.) One who makes or signs a requisition.
Requisitive (a.) Expressing or implying demand.
Requisitive (n.) One who, or that which, makes requisition; a requisitionist.
Requisitor (n.) One who makes reqisition; esp., one authorized by a requisition to investigate facts.
Requisitory (a.) Sought for; demanded.
Requitable (a.) That may be requited.
Requital (n.) The act of requiting; also, that which requites; return, good or bad, for anything done; in a good sense, compensation; recompense; as, the requital of services; in a bad sense, retaliation, or punishment; as, the requital of evil deeds.
Requited (imp. & p. p.) of Requite
Requiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Requite
Requite (v. t.) To repay; in a good sense, to recompense; to return (an equivalent) in good; to reward; in a bad sense, to retaliate; to return (evil) for evil; to punish.
Requitement (n.) Requital
Requiter (n.) One who requites.
Rerebrace (n.) Armor for the upper part of the arm.
Reredemain (n.) A backward stroke.
Reredos (n.) A screen or partition wall behind an altar.
Reredos (n.) The back of a fireplace.
Reredos (n.) The open hearth, upon which fires were lighted, immediately under the louver, in the center of ancient halls.
Rerefief (n.) A fief held of a superior feudatory; a fief held by an under tenant.
Rereign (v. i.) To reign again.
Re-reiterate (v. t.) To reiterate many times.
Reremouse (n.) A rearmouse.
Re-resolve (v. t. & i.) To resolve again.
Rereward (n.) The rear guard of an army.
Res (pl. ) of Res
Res (n.) A thing; the particular thing; a matter; a point.
Resail (v. t. & i.) To sail again; also, to sail back, as to a former port.
Resale (n.) A sale at second hand, or at retail; also, a second sale.
Resalgar (n.) Realgar.
Resalute (v. t.) To salute again.
Resaw (v. t.) To saw again; specifically, to saw a balk, or a timber, which has already been squared, into dimension lumber, as joists, boards, etc.
Rescat (v. t.) To ransom; to release; to rescue.
Rescat (n.) Ransom; release.
Rescinded (imp. & p. p.) of Rescind
Rescinding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rescind
Rescind (v. t.) To cut off; to abrogate; to annul.
Rescind (v. t.) Specifically, to vacate or make void, as an act, by the enacting authority or by superior authority; to repeal; as, to rescind a law, a resolution, or a vote; to rescind a decree or a judgment.
Rescindable (a.) Capable of being rescinded.
Rescindment (n.) The act of rescinding; rescission.
Rescission (n.) The act of rescinding, abrogating, annulling, or vacating; as, the rescission of a law, decree, or judgment.
Rescissory (a.) Tending to rescind; rescinding.
Rescous (n.) Rescue; deliverance.
Rescous (n.) See Rescue, 2.
Rescowe (v. t.) To rescue.
Rescribe (v. t.) To write back; to write in reply.
Rescribe (v. t.) To write over again.
Rescript (v. t.) The answer of an emperor when formallyconsulted by particular persons on some difficult question; hence, an edict or decree.
Rescript (v. t.) The official written answer of the pope upon a question of canon law, or morals.
Rescript (v. t.) A counterpart.
Rescription (n.) A writing back; the answering of a letter.
Rescriptive (a.) Pertaining to, or answering the purpose of, a rescript; hence, deciding; settling; determining.
Rescriptively (adv.) By rescript.
Rescuable (a.) That may be rescued.
Rescued (imp. & p. p.) of Rescue
Rescuing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rescue
Rescue (v. t.) To free or deliver from any confinement, violence, danger, or evil; to liberate from actual restraint; to remove or withdraw from a state of exposure to evil; as, to rescue a prisoner from the enemy; to rescue seamen from destruction.
Rescue (v.) The act of rescuing; deliverance from restraint, violence, or danger; liberation.
Rescue (v.) The forcible retaking, or taking away, against law, of things lawfully distrained.
Rescue (v.) The forcible liberation of a person from an arrest or imprisonment.
Rescue (v.) The retaking by a party captured of a prize made by the enemy.
Rescueless (a.) Without rescue or release.
Rescuer (n.) One who rescues.
Rescussee (n.) The party in whose favor a rescue is made.
Rescussor (n.) One who makes an unlawful rescue; a rescuer.
Rese (v. i.) To shake; to quake; to tremble.
Re-search (v. t.) To search again; to examine anew.
Research (n.) Diligent inquiry or examination in seeking facts or principles; laborious or continued search after truth; as, researches of human wisdom.
Research (v. t.) To search or examine with continued care; to seek diligently.
Researcher (n.) One who researches.
Researchful (a.) Making researches; inquisitive.
Reseat (v. t.) To seat or set again, as on a chair, throne, etc.
Reseat (v. t.) To put a new seat, or new seats, in; as, to reseat a theater; to reseat a chair or trousers.
Resected (imp. & p. p.) of Resect
Resecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resect
Resect (v. t.) To cut or pare off; to remove by cutting.
Resection (n.) The act of cutting or paring off.
Resection (n.) The removal of the articular extremity of a bone, or of the ends of the bones in a false articulation.
Reseda (n.) A genus of plants, the type of which is mignonette.
Reseda (n.) A grayish green color, like that of the flowers of mignonette.
Reseek (v. t.) To seek again.
Reseize (v. t.) To seize again, or a second time.
Reseize (v. t.) To put in possession again; to reinstate.
Reseize (v. t.) To take possession of, as lands and tenements which have been disseized.
Reseizer (n.) One who seizes again.
Reseizer (n.) The taking of lands into the hands of the king where a general livery, or oustre le main, was formerly mis-sued, contrary to the form and order of law.
Reseizure (n.) A second seizure; the act of seizing again.
Resell (v. t.) To sell again; to sell what has been bought or sold; to retail.
Resemblable (a.) Admitting of being compared; like.
Resemblance (n.) The quality or state of resembling; likeness; similitude; similarity.
Resemblance (n.) That which resembles, or is similar; a representation; a likeness.
Resemblance (n.) A comparison; a simile.
Resemblance (n.) Probability; verisimilitude.
Resemblant (a.) Having or exhibiting resemblance; resembling.
Resembled (imp. & p. p.) of Resemble
Resembling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resemble
Resemble (v. t.) To be like or similar to; to bear the similitude of, either in appearance or qualities; as, these brothers resemble each other.
Resemble (v. t.) To liken; to compare; to represent as like.
Resemble (v. t.) To counterfeit; to imitate.
Resemble (v. t.) To cause to imitate or be like.
Resembler (n.) One who resembles.
Resemblingly (adv.) So as to resemble; with resemblance or likeness.
Reseminate (v. t.) To produce again by means of seed.
Resend (v. t.) To send again; as, to resend a message.
Resend (v. t.) To send back; as, to resend a gift.
Resend (v. t.) To send on from an intermediate station by means of a repeater.
Resented (imp. & p. p.) of Resent
Resenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resent
Resent (v. t.) To be sensible of; to feel
Resent (v. t.) In a good sense, to take well; to receive with satisfaction.
Resent (v. t.) In a bad sense, to take ill; to consider as an injury or affront; to be indignant at.
Resent (v. t.) To express or exhibit displeasure or indignation at, as by words or acts.
Resent (v. t.) To recognize; to perceive, especially as if by smelling; -- associated in meaning with sent, the older spelling of scent to smell. See Resent, v. i.
Resent (v. i.) To feel resentment.
Resent (v. i.) To give forth an odor; to smell; to savor.
Resenter (n.) One who resents.
Resentful (a.) Inclined to resent; easily provoked to anger; irritable.
Resentiment (n.) Resentment.
Resentingly (adv.) With deep sense or strong perception.
Resentingly (adv.) With a sense of wrong or affront; with resentment.
Resentive (a.) Resentful.
Resentment (n.) The act of resenting.
Resentment (n.) The state of holding something in the mind as a subject of contemplation, or of being inclined to reflect upon something; a state of consciousness; conviction; feeling; impression.
Resentment (n.) In a good sense, satisfaction; gratitude.
Resentment (n.) In a bad sense, strong displeasure; anger; hostility provoked by a wrong or injury experienced.
Reserate (v. t.) To unlock; to open.
Reservance (n.) Reservation.
Reservation (n.) The act of reserving, or keeping back; concealment, or withholding from disclosure; reserve.
Reservation (n.) Something withheld, either not expressed or disclosed, or not given up or brought forward.
Reservation (n.) A tract of the public land reserved for some special use, as for schools, for the use of Indians, etc.
Reservation (n.) The state of being reserved, or kept in store.
Reservation (n.) A clause in an instrument by which some new thing is reserved out of the thing granted, and not in esse before.
Reservation (n.) A proviso.
Reservation (n.) The portion of the sacramental elements reserved for purposes of devotion and for the communion of the absent and sick.
Reservation (n.) A term of canon law, which signifies that the pope reserves to himself appointment to certain benefices.
Reservative (a.) Tending to reserve or keep; keeping; reserving.
Reservatory (v. t.) A place in which things are reserved or kept.
Reserved (imp. & p. p.) of Reserve
Reserving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reserve
Reserve (v. t.) To keep back; to retain; not to deliver, make over, or disclose.
Reserve (v. t.) Hence, to keep in store for future or special use; to withhold from present use for another purpose or time; to keep; to retain.
Reserve (v. t.) To make an exception of; to except.
Reserve (n.) The act of reserving, or keeping back; reservation.
Reserve (n.) That which is reserved, or kept back, as for future use.
Reserve (n.) That which is excepted; exception.
Reserve (n.) Restraint of freedom in words or actions; backwardness; caution in personal behavior.
Reserve (n.) A tract of land reserved, or set apart, for a particular purpose; as, the Connecticut Reserve in Ohio, originally set apart for the school fund of Connecticut; the Clergy Reserves in Canada, for the support of the clergy.
Reserve (n.) A body of troops in the rear of an army drawn up for battle, reserved to support the other lines as occasion may require; a force or body of troops kept for an exigency.
Reserve (n.) Funds kept on hand to meet liabilities.
Reserved (a.) Kept for future or special use, or for an exigency; as, reserved troops; a reserved seat in a theater.
Reserved (a.) Restrained from freedom in words or actions; backward, or cautious, in communicating one's thoughts and feelings; not free or frank.
Reservee (n.) One to, or for, whom anything is reserved; -- contrasted with reservor.
Reserver (n.) One who reserves.
Reservist (n.) A member of a reserve force of soldiers or militia.
Reservoir (n.) A place where anything is kept in store; especially, a place where water is collected and kept for use when wanted, as to supply a fountain, a canal, or a city by means of aqueducts, or to drive a mill wheel, or the like.
Reservoir (n.) A small intercellular space, often containing resin, essential oil, or some other secreted matter.
Reservor (n.) One who reserves; a reserver.
Reset (v. t.) To set again; as, to reset type; to reset copy; to reset a diamond.
Reset (n.) The act of resetting.
Reset (n.) That which is reset; matter set up again.
Reset (n.) The receiving of stolen goods, or harboring an outlaw.
Reset (v. t.) To harbor or secrete; to hide, as stolen goods or a criminal.
Resetter (n.) One who receives or conceals, as stolen goods or criminal.
Resetter (n.) One who resets, or sets again.
Resettle (v. t.) To settle again.
Resettle (v. i.) To settle again, or a second time.
Resettlement (n.) Act of settling again, or state of being settled again; as, the resettlement of lees.
Reshape (v. t.) To shape again.
Reship (v. t.) To ship again; to put on board of a vessel a second time; to send on a second voyage; as, to reship bonded merchandise.
Reship (v. i.) To engage one's self again for service on board of a vessel after having been discharged.
Reshipment (n.) The act of reshipping; also, that which is reshippped.
Reshipper (n.) One who reships.
Resiance (n.) Residence; abode.
Resiant (a.) Resident; present in a place.
Resiant (n.) A resident.
Resided (imp. & p. p.) of Reside
Residing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reside
Reside (v. i.) To dwell permanently or for a considerable time; to have a settled abode for a time; to abide continuosly; to have one's domicile of home; to remain for a long time.
Reside (v. i.) To have a seat or fixed position; to inhere; to lie or be as in attribute or element.
Reside (v. i.) To sink; to settle, as sediment.
Residence (n.) The act or fact of residing, abiding, or dwelling in a place for some continuance of time; as, the residence of an American in France or Italy for a year.
Residence (n.) The place where one resides; an abode; a dwelling or habitation; esp., a settled or permanent home or domicile.
Residence (n.) The residing of an incumbent on his benefice; -- opposed to nonresidence.
Residence (n.) The place where anything rests permanently.
Residence (n.) Subsidence, as of a sediment.
Residence (n.) That which falls to the bottom of liquors; sediment; also, refuse; residuum.
Residency (n.) Residence.
Residency (n.) A political agency at a native court in British India, held by an officer styled the Resident; also, a Dutch commercial colony or province in the East Indies.
Resident (a.) Dwelling, or having an abode, in a place for a continued length of time; residing on one's own estate; -- opposed to nonresident; as, resident in the city or in the country.
Resident (a.) Fixed; stable; certain.
Resident (n.) One who resides or dwells in a place for some time.
Resident (n.) A diplomatic representative who resides at a foreign court; -- a term usualy applied to ministers of a rank inferior to that of ambassadors. See the Note under Minister, 4.
Residenter (n.) A resident.
Residential (a.) Of or pertaining to a residence or residents; as, residential trade.
Residential (a.) Residing; residentiary.
Residentiary (a.) Having residence; as, a canon residentary; a residentiary guardian.
Residentiary (n.) One who is resident.
Residentiary (n.) An ecclesiastic who keeps a certain residence.
Residentiaryship (n.) The office or condition of a residentiary.
Residentship (n.) The office or condition of a resident.
Resider (n.) One who resides in a place.
Residual (a.) Pertaining to a residue; remaining after a part is taken.
Residual (n.) The difference of the results obtained by observation, and by computation from a formula.
Residual (n.) The difference between the mean of several observations and any one of them.
Residuary (a.) Consisting of residue; as, residuary matter; pertaining to the residue, or part remaining; as, the residuary advantage of an estate.
Residue (n.) That which remains after a part is taken, separated, removed, or designated; remnant; remainder.
Residue (n.) That part of a testeator's estate wwhich is not disposed of in his will by particular and special legacies and devises, and which remains after payment of debts and legacies.
Residue (n.) That which remains of a molecule after the removal of a portion of its constituents; hence, an atom or group regarded as a portion of a molecule; -- used as nearly equivalent to radical, but in a more general sense.
Residue (n.) Any positive or negative number that differs from a given number by a multiple of a given modulus; thus, if 7 is the modulus, and 9 the given number, the numbers -5, 2, 16, 23, etc., are residues.
Residuous (a.) Remaining; residual.
Residuum (n.) That which is left after any process of separation or purification; that which remains after certain specified deductions are made; residue.
Resiege (v. t.) To seat again; to reinstate.
Re-sign (v. t.) To affix one's signature to, a second time; to sign again.
Resigned (imp. & p. p.) of Resign
Resigning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resign
Resign (v. t.) To sign back; to return by a formal act; to yield to another; to surrender; -- said especially of office or emolument. Hence, to give up; to yield; to submit; -- said of the wishes or will, or of something valued; -- also often used reflexively.
Resign (v. t.) To relinquish; to abandon.
Resign (v. t.) To commit to the care of; to consign.
Re sign (n.) Resignation.
Resignation (n.) The act of resigning or giving up, as a claim, possession, office, or the like; surrender; as, the resignation of a crown or comission.
Resignation (n.) The state of being resigned or submissive; quiet or patient submission; unresisting acquiescence; as, resignation to the will and providence of God.
Resigned (a.) Submissive; yielding; not disposed to resist or murmur.
Resignedly (adv.) With submission.
Resignee (n.) One to whom anything is resigned, or in whose favor a resignation is made.
Resigner (n.) One who resigns.
Resignment (n.) The act of resigning.
Resiled (imp. & p. p.) of Resile
Resiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resile
Resile (v. i.) To start back; to recoil; to recede from a purpose.
Resilience (n.) Alt. of Resiliency
Resiliency (n.) The act of resiling, springing back, or rebounding; as, the resilience of a ball or of sound.
Resiliency (n.) The mechanical work required to strain an elastic body, as a deflected beam, stretched spring, etc., to the elastic limit; also, the work performed by the body in recovering from such strain.
Resilient (a.) Leaping back; rebounding; recoiling.
Resilition (n.) Resilience.
Resin (n.) Any one of a class of yellowish brown solid inflammable substances, of vegetable origin, which are nonconductors of electricity, have a vitreous fracture, and are soluble in ether, alcohol, and essential oils, but not in water; specif., pine resin (see Rosin).
Resinaceous (a.) Having the quality of resin; resinous.
Resinate (n.) Any one of the salts the resinic acids.
Resinic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, resin; as, the resinic acids.
Resiniferous (a.) Yielding resin; as, a resiniferous tree or vessel.
Resiniform (a.) Having the form of resin.
Resino-electric (a.) Containing or exhibiting resinous electricity.
Resinoid (a.) Somewhat like resin.
Resinous (a.) Of or pertaining to resin; of the nature of resin; resembling or obtained from resin.
Resinously (adv.) By means, or in the manner, of resin.
Resinousness (n.) The quality of being resinous.
Resiny (a.) Like resin; resinous.
Resipiscence (n.) Wisdom derived from severe experience; hence, repentance.
Resisted (imp. & p. p.) of Resist
Resisting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resist
Resist (v. t.) To stand against; to withstand; to obstruct.
Resist (v. t.) To strive against; to endeavor to counteract, defeat, or frustrate; to act in opposition to; to oppose.
Resist (v. t.) To counteract, as a force, by inertia or reaction.
Resist (v. t.) To be distasteful to.
Resist (v. i.) To make opposition.
Resist (n.) A substance used to prevent a color or mordant from fixing on those parts to which it has been applied, either by acting machanically in preventing the color, etc., from reaching the cloth, or chemically in changing the color so as to render it incapable of fixing itself in the fibers.. The pastes prepared for this purpose are called resist pastes.
Resistance (n.) The act of resisting; opposition, passive or active.
Resistance (n.) The quality of not yielding to force or external pressure; that power of a body which acts in opposition to the impulse or pressure of another, or which prevents the effect of another power; as, the resistance of the air to a body passing through it; the resistance of a target to projectiles.
Resistance (n.) A means or method of resisting; that which resists.
Resistance (n.) A certain hindrance or opposition to the passage of an electrical current or discharge offered by conducting bodies. It bears an inverse relation to the conductivity, -- good conductors having a small resistance, while poor conductors or insulators have a very high resistance. The unit of resistance is the ohm.
Resistant (a.) Making resistance; resisting.
Resistant (n.) One who, or that which, resists.
Resister (n.) One who resists.
Resistful (a.) Making much resistance.
Resistibility (n..) The quality of being resistible; resistibleness.
Resistibility (n..) The quality of being resistant; resitstance.
Resistible (a.) Capable of being resisted; as, a resistible force.
Resisting (a.) Making resistance; opposing; as, a resisting medium.
Resistive (a.) Serving to resist.
Resistless (a.) Having no power to resist; making no opposition.
Resistless (a.) Incapable of being resisted; irresistible.
Resoluble (a.) Admitting of being resolved; resolvable; as, bodies resoluble by fire.
Resolute (v. t. & i.) Having a decided purpose; determined; resolved; fixed in a determination; hence, bold; firm; steady.
Resolute (v. t. & i.) Convinced; satisfied; sure.
Resolute (v. t. & i.) Resolving, or explaining; as, the Resolute Doctor Durand.
Resolute (n.) One who is resolute; hence, a desperado.
Resolute (n.) Redelivery; repayment.
Resolutely (adv.) In a resolute manner; with fixed purpose; boldly; firmly; steadily; with perseverance.
Resoluteness (n.) The quality of being resolute.
Resolution (n.) The act, operation, or process of resolving. Specifically: (a) The act of separating a compound into its elements or component parts. (b) The act of analyzing a complex notion, or solving a vexed question or difficult problem.
Resolution (n.) The state of being relaxed; relaxation.
Resolution (n.) The state of being resolved, settled, or determined; firmness; steadiness; constancy; determination.
Resolution (n.) That which is resolved or determined; a settled purpose; determination. Specifically: A formal expression of the opinion or will of an official body or a public assembly, adopted by vote; as, a legislative resolution; the resolutions of a public meeting.
Resolution (n.) The state of being resolved or firm in opinion or thought; conviction; assurance.
Resolution (n.) The act or process of solving; solution; as, the resolution of an equation or problem.
Resolution (n.) A breaking up, disappearance; or termination, as of a fever, a tumor, or the like.
Resolution (n.) The passing of a dissonant into a consonant chord by the rising or falling of the note which makes the discord.
Resolutioner (n.) One who makes a resolution; one who joins with others in a declaration or resolution; specifically, one of a party in the Scottish Church in the 17th century.
Resolutionist (n.) One who makes a resolution.
Resolutive (a.) Serving to dissolve or relax.
Resolutory (a.) Resolutive.
Resolvability (n.) The quality or condition of being resolvable; resolvableness.
Resolvable (a.) Admitting of being resolved; admitting separation into constituent parts, or reduction to first principles; admitting solution or explanation; as, resolvable compounds; resolvable ideas or difficulties.
Resolvableness (n.) The quality of being resolvable; resolvability.
Resolved (imp. & p. p.) of Resolve
Resolving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resolve
Resolve (v. i.) To separate the component parts of; to reduce to the constituent elements; -- said of compound substances; hence, sometimes, to melt, or dissolve.
Resolve (v. i.) To reduce to simple or intelligible notions; -- said of complex ideas or obscure questions; to make clear or certain; to free from doubt; to disentangle; to unravel; to explain; hence, to clear up, or dispel, as doubt; as, to resolve a riddle.
Resolve (v. i.) To cause to perceive or understand; to acquaint; to inform; to convince; to assure; to make certain.
Resolve (v. i.) To determine or decide in purpose; to make ready in mind; to fix; to settle; as, he was resolved by an unexpected event.
Resolve (v. i.) To express, as an opinion or determination, by resolution and vote; to declare or decide by a formal vote; -- followed by a clause; as, the house resolved (or, it was resolved by the house) that no money should be apropriated (or, to appropriate no money).
Resolve (v. i.) To change or convert by resolution or formal vote; -- used only reflexively; as, the house resolved itself into a committee of the whole.
Resolve (v. i.) To solve, as a problem, by enumerating the several things to be done, in order to obtain what is required; to find the answer to, or the result of.
Resolve (v. i.) To dispere or scatter; to discuss, as an inflammation or a tumor.
Resolve (v. i.) To let the tones (as of a discord) follow their several tendencies, resulting in a concord.
Resolve (v. i.) To relax; to lay at ease.
Resolve (v. i.) To be separated into its component parts or distinct principles; to undergo resolution.
Resolve (v. i.) To melt; to dissolve; to become fluid.
Resolve (v. i.) To be settled in opinion; to be convinced.
Resolve (v. i.) To form a purpose; to make a decision; especially, to determine after reflection; as, to resolve on a better course of life.
Resolve (n.) The act of resolving or making clear; resolution; solution.
Resolve (n.) That which has been resolved on or determined; decisive conclusion; fixed purpose; determination; also, legal or official determination; a legislative declaration; a resolution.
Resolved (p. p. & a.) Having a fixed purpose; determined; resolute; -- usually placed after its noun; as, a man resolved to be rich.
Resolvedly (adv.) So as to resolve or clear up difficulties; clearly.
Resolvedly (adv.) Resolutely; decidedly; firmly.
Resolvedness (n.) Fixedness of purpose; firmness; resolution.
Resolvent (a.) Having power to resolve; causing solution; solvent.
Resolvent (n.) That which has the power of resolving, or causing solution; a solvent.
Resolvent (n.) That which has power to disperse inflammatory or other tumors; a discutient; anything which aids the absorption of effused products.
Resolvent (n.) An equation upon whose solution the solution of a given pproblem depends.
Resolver (n.) That which decomposes, or dissolves.
Resolver (n.) That which clears up and removes difficulties, and makes the mind certain or determined.
Resolver (n.) One who resolves, or formal a firm purpose.
Resonance (n.) The act of resounding; the quality or state of being resonant.
Resonance (n.) A prolongation or increase of any sound, either by reflection, as in a cavern or apartment the walls of which are not distant enough to return a distinct echo, or by the production of vibrations in other bodies, as a sounding-board, or the bodies of musical instruments.
Resonancy (n.) Resonance.
Resonant (a.) Returning, or capable of returning, sound; fitted to resound; resounding; echoing back.
Resonantly (adv.) In a resonant manner.
Resonator (n.) Anything which resounds; specifically, a vessel in the form of a cylinder open at one end, or a hollow ball of brass with two apertures, so contrived as to greatly intensify a musical tone by its resonance. It is used for the study and analysis of complex sounds.
Resorb (v. t.) To swallow up.
Resorbent (a.) Swallowing up.
Resorcin (n.) A colorless crystalline substance of the phenol series, obtained by melting certain resins, as galbanum, asafetida, etc., with caustic potash. It is also produced artificially and used in making certain dyestuffs, as phthalein, fluorescein, and eosin.
Resorcylic (a.) Of, or pertaining to, or producing, resorcin; as, resorcylic acid.
Resorption (n.) The act of resorbing; also, the act of absorbing again; reabsorption.
Resort (n.) Active power or movement; spring.
Resorted (imp. & p. p.) of Resort
Resorting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resort
Resort (v. i.) To go; to repair; to betake one's self.
Resort (v. i.) To fall back; to revert.
Resort (v. i.) To have recourse; to apply; to one's self for help, relief, or advantage.
Resort (v.) The act of going to, or making application; a betaking one's self; the act of visiting or seeking; recourse; as, a place of popular resort; -- often figuratively; as, to have resort to force.
Resort (v.) A place to which one betakes himself habitually; a place of frequent assembly; a haunt.
Resort (v.) That to which one resorts or looks for help; resource; refuge.
Resorter (n.) One who resorts; a frequenter.
Resoun (n.) Reason.
Resoun (v. i. & t.) To resound.
Re-sound (v. t. & i.) To sound again or anew.
Resounded (imp. & p. p.) of Resound
Resounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resound
Resound (v. i.) To sound loudly; as, his voice resounded far.
Resound (v. i.) To be filled with sound; to ring; as, the woods resound with song.
Resound (v. i.) To be echoed; to be sent back, as sound.
Resound (v. i.) To be mentioned much and loudly.
Resound (v. i.) To echo or reverberate; to be resonant; as, the earth resounded with his praise.
Resound (v. t.) To throw back, or return, the sound of; to echo; to reverberate.
Resound (v. t.) To praise or celebrate with the voice, or the sound of instruments; to extol with sounds; to spread the fame of.
Resound (n.) Return of sound; echo.
Resource (n.) That to which one resorts orr on which one depends for supply or support; means of overcoming a difficulty; resort; expedient.
Resource (n.) Pecuniary means; funds; money, or any property that can be converted into supplies; available means or capabilities of any kind.
Resourceful (a.) Full of resources.
Resourceless (a.) Destitute of resources.
Resow (v. t.) To sow again.
Resown (v.) To resound.
Respeak (v. t.) To speak or utter again.
Respeak (v. t.) To answer; to echo.
Respected (imp. & p. p.) of Respect
Respecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Respect
Respect (v. t.) To take notice of; to regard with special attention; to regard as worthy of special consideration; hence, to care for; to heed.
Respect (v. t.) To consider worthy of esteem; to regard with honor.
Respect (v. t.) To look toward; to front upon or toward.
Respect (v. t.) To regard; to consider; to deem.
Respect (v. t.) To have regard to; to have reference to; to relate to; as, the treaty particularly respects our commerce.
Respect (v.) The act of noticing with attention; the giving particular consideration to; hence, care; caution.
Respect (v.) Esteem; regard; consideration; honor.
Respect (v.) An expression of respect of deference; regards; as, to send one's respects to another.
Respect (v.) Reputation; repute.
Respect (v.) Relation; reference; regard.
Respect (v.) Particular; point regarded; point of view; as, in this respect; in any respect; in all respects.
Respect (v.) Consideration; motive; interest.
Respectability (n.) The state or quality of being respectable; the state or quality which deserves or commands respect.
Respectable (a.) Worthy of respect; fitted to awaken esteem; deserving regard; hence, of good repute; not mean; as, a respectable citizen.
Respectable (a.) Moderate in degree of excellence or in number; as, a respectable performance; a respectable audience.
Respectant (a.) Placed so as to face one another; -- said of animals.
Respecter (n.) One who respects.
Respectful (a.) Marked or characterized by respect; as, respectful deportment.
Respecting (prep.) With regard or relation to; regarding; concerning; as, respecting his conduct there is but one opinion.
Respection (n.) The act of respecting; respect; regard.
Respective (a.) Noticing with attention; hence, careful; wary; considerate.
Respective (a.) Looking towardl having reference to; relative, not absolute; as, the respective connections of society.
Respective (a.) Relating to particular persons or things, each to each; particular; own; as, they returned to their respective places of abode.
Respective (a.) Fitted to awaken respect.
Respective (a.) Rendering respect; respectful; regardful.
Respectively (adv.) As relating to each; particularly; as each belongs to each; as each refers to each in order; as, let each man respectively perform his duty.
Respectively (adv.) Relatively; not absolutely.
Respectively (adv.) Partially; with respect to private views.
Respectively (adv.) With respect; regardfully.
Respectless (a.) Having no respect; without regard; regardless.
Respectuous (a.) Respectful; as, a respectuous silence.
Respectuous (a.) Respectable.
Respell (v. t.) To spell again.
Resperse (v. t.) To sprinkle; to scatter.
Respersion (n.) The act of sprinkling or scattering.
Respirability (n.) The quality or state of being respirable; respirableness.
Respirable (a.) Suitable for being breathed; adapted for respiration.
Respiration (n.) The act of respiring or breathing again, or catching one's breath.
Respiration (n.) Relief from toil or suffering: rest.
Respiration (n.) Interval; intermission.
Respiration (n.) The act of resping or breathing; the act of taking in and giving out air; the aggregate of those processes bu which oxygen is introduced into the system, and carbon dioxide, or carbonic acid, removed.
Respirational (a.) Of or pertaining to respiration; as, respirational difficulties.
Respirative (a.) Of or pertaining to respiration; as, respirative organs.
Respirator (n.) A divice of gauze or wire, covering the mouth or nose, to prevent the inhalation of noxious substances, as dust or smoke. Being warmed by the breath, it tempers cold air passing through it, and may also be used for the inhalation of medicated vapors.
Respiratory (a.) Of or pertaining to respiration; serving for respiration; as, the respiratory organs; respiratory nerves; the respiratory function; respiratory changes.
Respired (imp. & p. p.) of Respire
Respiring (p. pr. & vvb. n.) of Respire
Respire (v. i.) To take breath again; hence, to take rest or refreshment.
Respire (v. i.) To breathe; to inhale air into the lungs, and exhale it from them, successively, for the purpose of maintaining the vitality of the blood.
Respire (v. t.) To breathe in and out; to inspire and expire,, as air; to breathe.
Respire (v. t.) To breathe out; to exhale.
Respite (n.) A putting off of that which was appointed; a postponement or delay.
Respite (n.) Temporary intermission of labor, or of any process or operation; interval of rest; pause; delay.
Respite (n.) Temporary suspension of the execution of a capital offender; reprieve.
Respite (n.) The delay of appearance at court granted to a jury beyond the proper term.
Respited (imp. & p. p.) of Respite
Respiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Respite
Respite (n.) To give or grant a respite to.
Respite (n.) To delay or postpone; to put off.
Respite (n.) To keep back from execution; to reprieve.
Respite (n.) To relieve by a pause or interval of rest.
Respiteless (a.) Without respite.
Resplendence (n.) Alt. of Resplendency
Resplendency (n.) The quality or state of being resplendent; brilliant luster; vivid brightness; splendor.
Resplendent (a.) Shining with brilliant luster; very bright.
Resplendishant (a.) Resplendent; brilliant.
Resplendishing (a.) Resplendent.
Resplit (v. t. & i.) To split again.
Responded (imp. & p. p.) of Respond
Responding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Respond
Respond (v. i.) To say somethin in return; to answer; to reply; as, to respond to a question or an argument.
Respond (v. i.) To show some effect in return to a force; to act in response; to accord; to correspond; to suit.
Respond (v. i.) To render satisfaction; to be answerable; as, the defendant is held to respond in damages.
Respond (v. t.) To answer; to reply.
Respond (v. t.) To suit or accord with; to correspond to.
Respond (n.) An answer; a response.
Respond (n.) A short anthem sung at intervals during the reading of a chapter.
Respond (n.) A half pier or pillar attached to a wall to support an arch.
Respondence (n.) Alt. of Respondency
Respondency (n.) The act of responding; the state of being respondent; an answering.
Respondent (a.) Disposed or expected to respond; answering; according; corresponding.
Respondent (n.) One who responds. It corresponds in general to defendant.
Respondent (n.) One who answers in certain suits or proceedings, generally those which are not according to the course of the common law, as in equity and admiralty causes, in petitions for partition, and the like; -- distinquished from appellant.
Respondent (n.) One who maintains a thesis in reply, and whose province it is to refute objections, or overthrow arguments; -- distinguished from opponent.
Respondentia (n.) A loan upon goods laden on board a ship. It differs from bottomry, which is a loan on the ship itself.
Responsal (a.) Answerable.
Responsal (n.) One who is answerable or responsible.
Responsal (n.) Response.
Response (n.) The act of responding.
Response (n.) An answer or reply.
Response (n.) Reply to an objection in formal disputation.
Response (n.) The answer of the people or congregation to the priest or clergyman, in the litany and other parts of divine service.
Response (n.) A kind of anthem sung after the lessons of matins and some other parts of the office.
Response (n.) A repetition of the given subject in a fugue by another part on the fifth above or fourth below.
Responseless (a.) Giving no response.
-ties (pl. ) of Responsibility
Responsibility (n.) The state of being responsible, accountable, or answerable, as for a trust, debt, or obligation.
Responsibility (n.) That for which anyone is responsible or accountable; as, the resonsibilities of power.
Responsibility (n.) Ability to answer in payment; means of paying.
Responsible (a.) Liable to respond; likely to be called upon to answer; accountable; answerable; amenable; as, a guardian is responsible to the court for his conduct in the office.
Responsible (a.) Able to respond or answer for one's conduct and obligations; trustworthy, financially or otherwise; as, to have a responsible man for surety.
Responsible (a.) Involving responsibility; involving a degree of accountability on the part of the person concerned; as, a responsible office.
Responsion (n.) The act of answering.
Responsion (n.) The first university examination; -- called also little go. See under Little, a.
Responsive (a.) That responds; ready or inclined to respond.
Responsive (a.) Suited to something else; correspondent.
Responsive (a.) Responsible.
Responsorial (a.) Responsory; antiphonal.
Responsory (a.) Containing or making answer; answering.
-ries (pl. ) of Responsory
Responsory (n.) The answer of the people to the priest in alternate speaking, in church service.
Responsory (n.) A versicle sung in answer to the priest, or as a refrain.
Responsory (n.) An antiphonary; a response book.
Rest (v. t.) To arrest.
Rest (n.) A state of quiet or repose; a cessation from motion or labor; tranquillity; as, rest from mental exertion; rest of body or mind.
Rest (n.) Hence, freedom from everything which wearies or disturbs; peace; security.
Rest (n.) Sleep; slumber; hence, poetically, death.
Rest (n.) That on which anything rests or leans for support; as, a rest in a lathe, for supporting the cutting tool or steadying the work.
Rest (n.) A projection from the right side of the cuirass, serving to support the lance.
Rest (n.) A place where one may rest, either temporarily, as in an inn, or permanently, as, in an abode.
Rest (n.) A short pause in reading verse; a c/sura.
Rest (n.) The striking of a balance at regular intervals in a running account.
Rest (n.) A set or game at tennis.
Rest (n.) Silence in music or in one of its parts; the name of the character that stands for such silence. They are named as notes are, whole, half, quarter,etc.
Rested (imp. & p. p.) of Rest
Resting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rest
Rest (n.) To cease from action or motion, especially from action which has caused weariness; to desist from labor or exertion.
Rest (n.) To be free from whanever wearies or disturbs; to be quiet or still.
Rest (n.) To lie; to repose; to recline; to lan; as, to rest on a couch.
Rest (n.) To stand firm; to be fixed; to be supported; as, a column rests on its pedestal.
Rest (n.) To sleep; to slumber; hence, poetically, to be dead.
Rest (n.) To lean in confidence; to trust; to rely; to repose without anxiety; as, to rest on a man's promise.
Rest (n.) To be satisfied; to acquiesce.
Rest (v. t.) To lay or place at rest; to quiet.
Rest (v. t.) To place, as on a support; to cause to lean.
Rest (n.) That which is left, or which remains after the separation of a part, either in fact or in contemplation; remainder; residue.
Rest (n.) Those not included in a proposition or description; the remainder; others.
Rest (n.) A surplus held as a reserved fund by a bank to equalize its dividends, etc.; in the Bank of England, the balance of assets above liabilities.
Rest (v. i.) To be left; to remain; to continue to be.
Restagnant (a.) Stagnant; motionless.
Restagnate (v. i.) To stagnate; to cease to flow.
Restagnation (n.) Stagnation.
Restant (a.) Persistent.
Restate (v. t.) To state anew.
Restaurant (n.) An eating house.
Restaurate (v. t.) To restore.
Restaurateur (n.) The keeper of an eathing house or a restaurant.
Restauration (n.) Restoration.
Restem (v. t.) To force back against the current; as, to restem their backward course.
Restem (v. t.) To stem, or move against; as, to restem a current.
Restful (a.) Being at rest; quiet.
Restful (a.) Giving rest; freeing from toil, trouble, etc.
Rest-harrow (n.) A European leguminous plant (Ononis arvensis) with long, tough roots.
Restiff (a.) Restive.
Restiff (n.) A restive or stubborn horse.
Restiffness (n.) Restiveness.
Restiform (a.) Formed like a rope; -- applied especially to several ropelike bundles or masses of fibers on the dorsal side of the medulla oblongata.
Restily (adv.) In a resty manner.
Restinction (n.) Act of quenching or extingishing.
Restiness (n.) The quality or state of being resty; sluggishness.
Resting () a. & n. from Rest, v. t. & i.
Restinguish (v. t.) To quench or extinguish.
Restitute (v. t.) To restore to a former state.
Restitute (n.) That which is restored or offered in place of something; a substitute.
Restitution (v.) The act of restoring anything to its rightful owner, or of making good, or of giving an equivalent for any loss, damage, or injury; indemnification.
Restitution (v.) That which is offered or given in return for what has been lost, injured, or destroved; compensation.
Restitution (v.) The act of returning to, or recovering, a former state; as, the restitution of an elastic body.
Restitution (v.) The movement of rotetion which usually occurs in childbirth after the head has been delivered, and which causes the latter to point towards the side to which it was directed at the beginning of labor.
Restitutor (n.) One who makes restitution.
Restive (a.) Unwilling to go on; obstinate in refusing to move forward; stubborn; drawing back.
Restive (a.) Inactive; sluggish.
Restive (a.) Impatient under coercion, chastisement, or opposition; refractory.
Restive (a.) Uneasy; restless; averse to standing still; fidgeting about; -- applied especially to horses.
Restless (a.) Never resting; unquiet; uneasy; continually moving; as, a restless child.
Restless (a.) Not satisfied to be at rest or in peace; averse to repose or quiet; eager for change; discontented; as, restless schemers; restless ambition; restless subjects.
Restless (a.) Deprived of rest or sleep.
Restless (a.) Passed in unquietness; as, the patient has had a restless night.
Restless (a.) Not affording rest; as, a restless chair.
Restorable (a.) Admitting of being restored; capable of being reclaimed; as, restorable land.
Restoral (n.) Restoration.
Restoration (n.) The act of restoring or bringing back to a former place, station, or condition; the fact of being restored; renewal; reestablishment; as, the restoration of friendship between enemies; the restoration of peace after war.
Restoration (n.) The state of being restored; recovery of health, strength, etc.; as, restoration from sickness.
Restoration (n.) That which is restored or renewed.
Restorationer (n.) A Restorationist.
Restorationism (n.) The belief or doctrines of the Restorationists.
Restorationist (n.) One who believes in a temporary future punishment and a final restoration of all to the favor and presence of God; a Universalist.
Restorative (a.) Of or pertaining to restoration; having power to restore.
Restorative (n.) Something which serves to restore; especially, a restorative medicine.
Restoratively (adv.) In a restorative manner.
Restorator (n.) A restaurateur.
Restoratory (a.) Restorative.
Re-store (v. t.) To store again; as, the goods taken out were re-stored.
Restored (imp. & p. p.) of Restore
Restoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Restore
Restore (v. t.) To bring back to its former state; to bring back from a state of ruin, decay, disease, or the like; to repair; to renew; to recover.
Restore (v. t.) To give or bring back, as that which has been lost., or taken away; to bring back to the owner; to replace.
Restore (v. t.) To renew; to reestablish; as, to restore harmony among those who are variance.
Restore (v. t.) To give in place of, or as satisfaction for.
Restore (v. t.) To make good; to make amends for.
Restore (v. t.) To bring back from a state of injury or decay, or from a changed condition; as, to restore a painting, statue, etc.
Restore (v. t.) To form a picture or model of, as of something lost or mutilated; as, to restore a ruined building, city, or the like.
Restore (n.) Restoration.
Restorement (n.) Restoration.
Restorer (n.) One who, or that which, restores.
Restrained (imp. & p. p.) of Restrain
Restraining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Restrain
Restrain (v. t.) To draw back again; to hold back from acting, proceeding, or advancing, either by physical or moral force, or by any interposing obstacle; to repress or suppress; to keep down; to curb.
Restrain (v. t.) To draw back toghtly, as a rein.
Restrain (v. t.) To hinder from unlimited enjoiment; to abridge.
Restrain (v. t.) To limit; to confine; to restrict.
Restrain (v. t.) To withhold; to forbear.
Restrainable (a.) Capable of being restrained; controllable.
Restrainedly (adv.) With restraint.
Restrainer (n.) One who, or that which, restrains.
Restrainment (n.) The act of restraining.
Restraint (n.) The act or process of restraining, or of holding back or hindering from motion or action, in any manner; hindrance of the will, or of any action, physical or mental.
Restraint (n.) The state of being restrained.
Restraint (n.) That which restrains, as a law, a prohibition, or the like; limitation; restriction.
Restrengthen (v. t.) To strengthen again; to fortify anew.
Restrict (a.) Restricted.
Restricted (imp. & p. p.) of Restrict
Restricting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Restrict
Restrict (v. t.) To restrain within bounds; to limit; to confine; as, to restrict worlds to a particular meaning; to restrict a patient to a certain diet.
Restriction (n.) The act of restricting, or state of being restricted; confinement within limits or bounds.
Restriction (n.) That which restricts; limitation; restraint; as, restrictions on trade.
Restrictionary (a.) Restrictive.
Restrictive (a.) Serving or tending to restrict; limiting; as, a restrictive particle; restrictive laws of trade.
Restrictive (a.) Astringent or styptic in effect.
Restringed (imp. & p. p.) of Restringe
Restringing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Restringe
Restringe (v. t.) To confine; to contract; to stringe.
Restringency (n.) Quality or state of being restringent; astringency.
Restringent (a.) Restringing; astringent; styptic.
Restringent (n.) A restringent medicine.
Restrive (v. i.) To strive anew.
Resty (a.) Disposed to rest; indisposed toexercton; sluggish; also, restive.
Resubjection (n.) A second subjection.
Resublime (v. t.) To sublime again.
Resudation (n.) Act of sweating again.
Resulted (imp. & p. p.) of Result
Resulting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Result
Result (v. i.) To leap back; to rebound.
Result (v. i.) To come out, or have an issue; to terminate; to have consequences; -- followed by in; as, this measure will result in good or in evil.
Result (v. i.) To proceed, spring, or rise, as a consequence, from facts, arguments, premises, combination of circumstances, consultation, thought, or endeavor.
Result (n.) A flying back; resilience.
Result (n.) That which results; the conclusion or end to which any course or condition of things leads, or which is obtained by any process or operation; consequence or effect; as, the result of a course of action; the result of a mathematical operation.
Result (n.) The decision or determination of a council or deliberative assembly; a resolve; a decree.
Resultance (n.) The act of resulting; that which results; a result.
Resultant (a.) Resulting or issuing from a combination; existing or following as a result or consequence.
Resultant (n.) That which results.
Resultant (n.) A reultant force or motion.
Resultant (n.) An eliminant.
Resultate (n.) A result.
Resultful (a.) HAving results or effects.
Resultive (a.) Resultant.
Resultless (a.) Being without result; as, resultless investigations.
Resumable (a.) Capable of, or admitting of, being resumed.
Resume (n.) A summing up; a condensed statement; an abridgment or brief recapitulation.
Resumed (imp. & p. p.) of Resume
Resuming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resume
Resume (v. t.) To take back.
Resume (v. t.) To enter upon, or take up again.
Resume (v. t.) To begin again; to recommence, as something which has been interrupted; as, to resume an argument or discourse.
Resummon (v. t.) To summon again.
Resummons (n.) A second summons.
Resumption (n.) The act of resuming; as, the resumption of a grant, of delegated powers, of an argument, of specie payments, etc.
Resumption (n.) The taking again into the king's hands of such lands or tenements as he had granted to any man on false suggestions or other error.
Resumptive (a.) Taking back; resuming, or tending toward resumption; as, resumptive measures.
Resupinate (a.) Inverted in position; appearing to be upside down or reversed, as the flowers of the orchis and the leaves of some plants.
Resupinated (a.) Resupinate.
Resupination (n.) The state of luing on the back; the state of being resupinate, or reversed.
Resupine (a.) Lying on the back; supine; hence, careless.
Resupply (v. t.) To supply again.
Resurgence (n.) The act of rising again; resurrection.
Resurgent (a.) Rising again, as from the dead.
Resurgent (n.) One who rises again, as from the dead.
Resurrect (v. t.) To take from the grave; to disinter.
Resurrect (v. t.) To reanimate; to restore to life; to bring to view (that which was forgotten or lost).
Resurrection (n.) A rising again; the resumption of vigor.
Resurrection (n.) Especially, the rising again from the dead; the resumption of life by the dead; as, the resurrection of Jesus Christ; the general resurrection of all the dead at the Day of Judgment.
Resurrection (n.) State of being risen from the dead; future state.
Resurrection (n.) The cause or exemplar of a rising from the dead.
Resurrectionist (n.) One who steals bodies from the grave, as for dissection.
Resurrectionize (v. t.) To raise from the dead.
Resurvey (v. t.) To survey again or anew; to review.
Resurvey (n.) A second or new survey.
Resuscitable (a.) Capable of resuscitation; as, resuscitable plants.
Resuscitant (n.) One who, or that which resuscitates. Also used adjectively.
Resuscitate (a.) Restored to life.
Resuscitated (imp. & p. p.) of Resuscitate
Resuscitating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Resuscitate
Resuscitate (v. t.) To revivify; to revive; especially, to recover or restore from apparent death; as, to resuscitate a drowned person; to resuscitate withered plants.
Resuscitate (v. i.) To come to life again; to revive.
Resuscitation (n.) The act of resuscitating, or state of being resuscitated.
Resuscitative (a.) Tending to resuscitate; reviving; revivifying.
Resuscitator (n.) One who, or that which, resuscitates.
Ret (v. t.) See Aret.
Ret (v. t.) To prepare for use, as flax, by separating the fibers from the woody part by process of soaking, macerating, and other treatment.
Retable (n.) A shelf behind the altar, for display of lights, vases of wlowers, etc.
Retail (v.) The sale of commodities in small quantities or parcels; -- opposed to wholesale; sometimes, the sale of commodities at second hand.
Retail (a.) Done at retail; engaged in retailing commodities; as a retail trade; a retail grocer.
Retailed (imp. & p. p.) of Retail
Retailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retail
Retail (n.) To sell in small quantities, as by the single yard, pound, gallon, etc.; to sell directly to the consumer; as, to retail cloth or groceries.
Retail (n.) To sell at second hand.
Retail (n.) To distribute in small portions or at second hand; to tell again or to many (what has been told or done); to report; as, to retail slander.
Retailer (n.) One who retails anything; as, a retailer of merchandise; a retailer of gossip.
Retailment (n.) The act of retailing.
Retained (imp. & p. p.) of Retain
Retaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retain
Retain (v. t.) To continue to hold; to keep in possession; not to lose, part with, or dismiss; to retrain from departure, escape, or the like.
Retain (v. t.) To keep in pay; to employ by a preliminary fee paid; to hire; to engage; as, to retain a counselor.
Retain (v. t.) To restrain; to prevent.
Retain (v. i.) To belong; to pertain.
Retain (v. i.) To keep; to continue; to remain.
Retainable (a.) Capable of being retained.
Retainal (n.) The act of retaining; retention.
Retainer (n.) One who, or that which, retains.
Retainer (n.) One who is retained or kept in service; an attendant; an adherent; a hanger-on.
Retainer (n.) Hence, a servant, not a domestic, but occasionally attending and wearing his master's livery.
Retainer (n.) The act of a client by which he engages a lawyer or counselor to manage his cause.
Retainer (n.) The act of withholding what one has in his hands by virtue of some right.
Retainer (n.) A fee paid to engage a lawyer or counselor to maintain a cause, or to prevent his being employed by the opposing party in the case; -- called also retaining fee.
Retainer (n.) The act of keeping dependents, or the state of being in dependence.
Retainment (n.) The act of retaining; retention.
Retake (v. t.) To take or receive again.
Retake (v. t.) To take from a captor; to recapture; as, to retake a ship or prisoners.
Retaker (n.) One who takes again what has been taken; a recaptor.
Retaliated (imp. & p. p.) of Retaliate
Retaliating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retaliate
Retaliate (v. t.) To return the like for; to repay or requite by an act of the same kind; to return evil for (evil). [Now seldom used except in a bad sense.]
Retaliate (v. i.) To return like for like; specifically, to return evil for evil; as, to retaliate upon an enemy.
Retaliation (n.) The act of retaliating, or of returning like for like; retribution; now, specifically, the return of evil for evil; e.g., an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.
Retaliative (a.) Same as Retaliatory.
Retaliatory (a.) Tending to, or involving, retaliation; retaliative; as retaliatory measures.
Retarded (imp. & p. p.) of Retard
Retarding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retard
Retard (v. t.) To keep delaying; to continue to hinder; to prevent from progress; to render more slow in progress; to impede; to hinder; as, to retard the march of an army; to retard the motion of a ship; -- opposed to accelerate.
Retard (v. t.) To put off; to postpone; as, to retard the attacks of old age; to retard a rupture between nations.
Retard (v. i.) To stay back.
Retard (n.) Retardation; delay.
Retardation (n.) The act of retarding; hindrance; the act of delaying; as, the retardation of the motion of a ship; -- opposed to acceleration.
Retardation (n.) That which retards; an obstacle; an obstruction.
Retardation (n.) The keeping back of an approaching consonant chord by prolonging one or more tones of a previous chord into the intermediate chord which follows; -- differing from suspension by resolving upwards instead of downwards.
Retardation (n.) The extent to which anything is retarded; the amount of retarding or delay.
Retardative (a.) Tending, or serving, to retard.
Retarder (n.) One who, or that which, retards.
Retardment (n.) The act of retarding; retardation.
Retched (imp. & p. p.) of Retch
Retching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retch
Retch (v. i.) To make an effort to vomit; to strain, as in vomiting.
Retch (v. t. & i.) To care for; to heed; to reck.
Retchless (a.) Careless; reckless.
Rete (n.) A net or network; a plexus; particularly, a network of blood vessels or nerves, or a part resembling a network.
Retecious (a.) Resembling network; retiform.
Retection (n.) Act of disclosing or uncovering something concealed.
Retell (v. t.) To tell again.
Retene (n.) A white crystalline hydrocarbon, polymeric with benzene. It is extracted from pine tar, and is also found in certain fossil resins.
Retent (n.) That which is retained.
Retention (n.) The act of retaining, or the state of being ratined.
Retention (n.) The power of retaining; retentiveness.
Retention (n.) That which contains something, as a tablet; a //// of preserving impressions.
Retention (n.) The act of withholding; retraint; reserve.
Retention (n.) Place of custody or confinement.
Retention (n.) The right of withholding a debt, or of retaining property until a debt due to the person claiming the right be duly paid; a lien.
Retentive (a.) Having power to retain; as, a retentive memory.
Retentive (n.) That which retains or confines; a restraint.
Retentively (adv.) In a retentive manner.
Retentiveness (n.) The quality of being retentive.
Retentivity (n.) The power of retaining; retentive force; as, the retentivity of a magnet.
Retentor (n.) A muscle which serves to retain an organ or part in place, esp. when retracted. See Illust. of Phylactolemata.
Retepore (n.) Any one of several species of bryozoans of the genus Retepora. They form delicate calcareous corals, usually composed of thin fenestrated fronds.
Retex (v. t.) To annual, as orders.
Retexture (n.) The act of weaving or forming again.
Rethor (n.) A rhetorician; a careful writer.
Rethoryke (n.) Rhetoric.
Retiarius (n.) A gladiator armed with a net for entangling his adversary and a trident for despatching him.
Retiary (n.) Any spider which spins webs to catch its prey.
Retiary (n.) A retiarius.
Retiary (a.) Netlike.
Retiary (a.) Constructing or using a web, or net, to catch prey; -- said of certain spiders.
Retiary (a.) Armed with a net; hence, skillful to entangle.
Reticence (n.) The quality or state of being reticent, or keeping silence; the state of holding one's tonque; refraining to speak of that which is suggested; uncommunicativeness.
Reticence (n.) A figure by which a person really speaks of a thing while he makes a show as if he would say nothingon the subject.
Reticency (n.) Reticence.
Reticent (a.) Inclined to keep silent; reserved; uncommunicative.
Reticle (n.) A small net.
Reticle (n.) A reticule. See Reticule, 2.
Reticular (a.) Having the form of a net, or of network; formed with interstices; retiform; as, reticular cartilage; a reticular leaf.
Reticular (a.) Of or pertaining to a reticulum.
Reticularia (n. pl.) An extensive division of rhizopods in which the pseudopodia are more or less slender and coalesce at certain points, forming irregular meshes. It includes the shelled Foraminifera, together with some groups which lack a true shell.
Reticularian (n.) One of the Reticularia.
Reticularly (adv.) In a reticular manner.
Reticulate (a.) Alt. of Reticulated
Reticulated (a.) Resembling network; having the form or appearance of a net; netted; as, a reticulated structure.
Reticulated (a.) Having veins, fibers, or lines crossing like the threads or fibers of a network; as, a reticulate leaf; a reticulated surface; a reticulated wing of an insect.
Reticulation (n.) The quality or state of being reticulated, or netlike; that which is reticulated; network; an organization resembling a net.
Reticule (n..) A little bag, originally of network; a woman's workbag, or a little bag to be carried in the hand.
Reticule (n..) A system of wires or lines in the focus of a telescope or other instrument; a reticle.
Reticulosa (n. pl.) Same as Reticularia.
Reticulose (a.) Forming a network; characterized by a reticulated sructure.
Reticula (pl. ) of Reticulum
Reticulum (n.) The second stomach of ruminants, in which folds of the mucous membrane form hexagonal cells; -- also called the honeycomb stomach.
Reticulum (n.) The neuroglia.
Retiform (a.) Composed of crossing lines and interstices; reticular; netlike; as, the retiform coat of the eye.
Retina (n.) The delicate membrane by which the back part of the globe of the eye is lined, and in which the fibers of the optic nerve terminate. See Eye.
Retinacula (pl. ) of Retinaculum
Retinaculum (n.) A connecting band; a fraenum; as, the retinacula of the ileocaecal and ileocolic valves.
Retinaculum (n.) One of the annular ligaments which hold the tendons close to the bones at the larger joints, as at the wrist and ankle.
Retinaculum (n.) One of the retractor muscles of the proboscis of certain worms.
Retinaculum (n.) A small gland or process to which bodies are attached; as, the glandular retinacula to which the pollinia of orchids are attached, or the hooks which support the seeds in many acanthaceous plants.
Retinal (a.) Of or pertaining to the retina.
Retinalite (n.) A translucent variety of serpentine, of a honey yellow or greenish yellow color, having a waxy resinlike luster.
Retinasphalt (n.) Alt. of Retinasphaltum
Retinasphaltum (n.) Retinite.
Retinerved (a.) Having reticulated veins.
Retinea (pl. ) of Retineum
Retineum (n.) That part of the eye of an invertebrate which corresponds in function with the retina of a vertebrate.
Retinic (a.) Of or pertaining to resin; derived from resin; specifically, designating an acid found in certain fossil resins and hydrocarbons.
Retinite (n.) An inflammable mineral resin, usually of a yellowish brown color, found in roundish masses, sometimes with coal.
Retinitis (n.) Inflammation of the retina.
Retinoid (a.) Resinlike, or resinform; resembling a resin without being such.
Retinol (n.) A hydrocarbon oil obtained by the distillation of resin, -- used in printer's ink.
Retiniphorae (pl. ) of Retinophora
Retinophora (n.) One of group of two to four united cells which occupy the axial part of the ocelli, or ommatidia, of the eyes of invertebrates, and contain the terminal nerve fibrillae. See Illust. under Ommatidium.
Retinophoral (a.) Of or pertaining to retinophorae.
Retinoscopy (n.) The study of the retina of the eye by means of the ophthalmoscope.
Retinue (n.) The body of retainers who follow a prince or other distinguished person; a train of attendants; a suite.
Retinulae (pl. ) of Retinula
Retinula (n.) One of the group of pigmented cells which surround the retinophorae of invertebrates. See Illust. under Ommatidium.
Retinulate (a.) Having, or characterized by, retinul/.
Retiped (n.) A bird having small polygonal scales covering the tarsi.
Retiracy (n.) Retirement; -- mostly used in a jocose or burlesque way.
Retirade (n.) A kind of retrenchment, as in the body of a bastion, which may be disputed inch by inch after the defenses are dismantled. It usually consists of two faces which make a reentering angle.
Retired (imp. & p. p.) of Retire
Retiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retire
Retire (v. t.) To withdraw; to take away; -- sometimes used reflexively.
Retire (v. t.) To withdraw from circulation, or from the market; to take up and pay; as, to retire bonds; to retire a note.
Retire (v. t.) To cause to retire; specifically, to designate as no longer qualified for active service; to place on the retired list; as, to retire a military or naval officer.
Retire (v. i.) To go back or return; to draw back or away; to keep aloof; to withdraw or retreat, as from observation; to go into privacy; as, to retire to his home; to retire from the world, or from notice.
Retire (v. i.) To retreat from action or danger; to withdraw for safety or pleasure; as, to retire from battle.
Retire (v. i.) To withdraw from a public station, or from business; as, having made a large fortune, he retired.
Retire (v. i.) To recede; to fall or bend back; as, the shore of the sea retires in bays and gulfs.
Retire (v. i.) To go to bed; as, he usually retires early.
Retire (n.) The act of retiring, or the state of being retired; also, a place to which one retires.
Retire (n.) A call sounded on a bugle, announcing to skirmishers that they are to retire, or fall back.
Retired (a.) Private; secluded; quiet; as, a retired life; a person of retired habits.
Retired (a.) Withdrawn from active duty or business; as, a retired officer; a retired physician.
Retirement (n.) The act of retiring, or the state of being retired; withdrawal; seclusion; as, the retirement of an officer.
Retirement (n.) A place of seclusion or privacy; a place to which one withdraws or retreats; a private abode.
Retirer (n.) One who retires.
Retiring (a.) Reserved; shy; not forward or obtrusive; as, retiring modesty; retiring manners.
Retiring (a.) Of or pertaining to retirement; causing retirement; suited to, or belonging to, retirement.
Retistene (n.) A white crystalline hydrocarbon produced indirectly from retene.
Retitelae (n. pl.) A group of spiders which spin irregular webs; -- called also Retitelariae.
Retold () imp. & p. p. of Retell.
Retorsion (n.) Same as Retortion.
Retorted (imp. & p. p.) of Retort
Retorting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retort
Retort (n.) To bend or curve back; as, a retorted line.
Retort (n.) To throw back; to reverberate; to reflect.
Retort (n.) To return, as an argument, accusation, censure, or incivility; as, to retort the charge of vanity.
Retort (v. i.) To return an argument or a charge; to make a severe reply.
Retort (v. t.) The return of, or reply to, an argument, charge, censure, incivility, taunt, or witticism; a quick and witty or severe response.
Retort (v. t.) A vessel in which substances are subjected to distillation or decomposition by heat. It is made of different forms and materials for different uses, as a bulb of glass with a curved beak to enter a receiver for general chemical operations, or a cylinder or semicylinder of cast iron for the manufacture of gas in gas works.
Retorter (n.) One who retorts.
Retortion (v. t.) Act of retorting or throwing back; reflection or turning back.
Retortion (v. t.) Retaliation.
Retortive (a.) Containing retort.
Retoss (v. t.) To toss back or again.
Retouch (v. t.) To touch again, or rework, in order to improve; to revise; as, to retouch a picture or an essay.
Retouch (v. t.) To correct or change, as a negative, by handwork.
Retouch (n.) A partial reworking,as of a painting, a sculptor's clay model, or the like.
Retoucher (n.) One who retouches.
Retrace (v. t.) To trace back, as a line.
Retrace (v. t.) To go back, in or over (a previous course); to go over again in a reverse direction; as, to retrace one's steps; to retrace one's proceedings.
Retrace (v. t.) To trace over again, or renew the outline of, as a drawing; to draw again.
Retracted (imp. & p. p.) of Retract
Retracting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retract
Retract (v. t.) To draw back; to draw up or shorten; as, the cat can retract its claws; to retract a muscle.
Retract (v. t.) To withdraw; to recall; to disavow; to recant; to take back; as, to retract an accusation or an assertion.
Retract (v. t.) To take back,, as a grant or favor previously bestowed; to revoke.
Retract (v. i.) To draw back; to draw up; as, muscles retract after amputation.
Retract (v. i.) To take back what has been said; to withdraw a concession or a declaration.
Retract (n.) The pricking of a horse's foot in nailing on a shoe.
Retractable (a.) Capable of being retracted; retractile.
Retractate (v. t.) To retract; to recant.
Retractation (n.) The act of retracting what has been said; recantation.
Retractible (a.) Retractable.
Retractile (a.) Capable of retraction; capable of being drawn back or up; as, the claws of a cat are retractile.
Retraction (n.) The act of retracting, or drawing back; the state of being retracted; as, the retraction of a cat's claws.
Retraction (n.) The act of withdrawing something advanced, stated, claimed, or done; declaration of change of opinion; recantation.
Retraction (n.) The act of retracting or shortening; as, the retraction of a severed muscle; the retraction of a sinew.
Retraction (n.) The state or condition of a part when drawn back, or towards the center of the body.
Retractive (a.) Serving to retract; of the nature of a retraction.
Retractive (n.) That which retracts, or withdraws.
Retractor (n.) One who, or that which, retracts.
Retractor (n.) In breech-loading firearms, a device for withdrawing a cartridge shell from the barrel.
Retractor (n.) An instrument for holding apart the edges of a wound during amputation.
Retractor (n.) A bandage to protect the soft parts from injury by the saw during amputation.
Retractor (n.) A muscle serving to draw in any organ or part. See Illust. under Phylactolaemata.
Retraict (n.) Retreat.
Retrait (n.) A portrait; a likeness.
Retransform (v. t.) To transform anew or back.
Retranslate (v. t.) To translate anew; especially, to translate back into the original language.
Retraxit (n.) The withdrawing, or open renunciation, of a suit in court by the plaintiff, by which he forever lost his right of action.
Retread (v. t. & i.) To tread again.
Retreat (n.) The act of retiring or withdrawing one's self, especially from what is dangerous or disagreeable.
Retreat (n.) The place to which anyone retires; a place or privacy or safety; a refuge; an asylum.
Retreat (n.) The retiring of an army or body of men from the face of an enemy, or from any ground occupied to a greater distance from the enemy, or from an advanced position.
Retreat (n.) The withdrawing of a ship or fleet from an enemy for the purpose of avoiding an engagement or escaping after defeat.
Retreat (n.) A signal given in the army or navy, by the beat of a drum or the sounding of trumpet or bugle, at sunset (when the roll is called), or for retiring from action.
Retreat (n.) A special season of solitude and silence to engage in religious exercises.
Retreat (n.) A period of several days of withdrawal from society to a religious house for exclusive occupation in the duties of devotion; as, to appoint or observe a retreat.
Retreated (imp. & p. p.) of Retreat
Retreating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retreat
Retreat (v. i.) To make a retreat; to retire from any position or place; to withdraw; as, the defeated army retreated from the field.
Retreatful (a.) Furnishing or serving as a retreat.
Retreatment (n.) The act of retreating; specifically, the Hegira.
Retrenched (imp. & p. p.) of Retrench
Retrenching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retrench
Retrench (v. t.) To cut off; to pare away.
Retrench (v. t.) To lessen; to abridge; to curtail; as, to retrench superfluities or expenses.
Retrench (v. t.) To confine; to limit; to restrict.
Retrench (v. t.) To furnish with a retrenchment; as, to retrench bastions.
Retrench (v. i.) To cause or suffer retrenchment; specifically, to cut down living expenses; as, it is more reputable to retrench than to live embarrassed.
Retrenchment (n.) The act or process of retrenching; as, the retrenchment of words in a writing.
Retrenchment (n.) A work constructed within another, to prolong the defense of the position when the enemy has gained possession of the outer work; or to protect the defenders till they can retreat or obtain terms for a capitulation.
Retrial (n.) A secdond trial, experiment, or test; a second judicial trial, as of an accused person.
Retribute (v. t.) To pay back; to give in return, as payment, reward, or punishment; to requite; as, to retribute one for his kindness; to retribute just punishment to a criminal.
Retributer (n.) One who makes retribution.
Retribution (n.) The act of retributing; repayment.
Retribution (n.) That which is given in repayment or compensation; return suitable to the merits or deserts of, as an action; commonly, condign punishment for evil or wrong.
Retribution (n.) Specifically, reward and punishment, as distributed at the general judgment.
Retributive (a.) Alt. of Retributory
Retributory (a.) Of or pertaining to retribution; of the nature of retribution; involving retribution or repayment; as, retributive justice; retributory comforts.
Retrievable (a.) That may be retrieved or recovered; admitting of retrieval.
Retrieval (n.) The act retrieving.
Retrieved (imp. & p. p.) of Retrieve
Retrieving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retrieve
Retrieve (v. t.) To find again; to recover; to regain; to restore from loss or injury; as, to retrieve one's character; to retrieve independence.
Retrieve (v. t.) To recall; to bring back.
Retrieve (v. t.) To remedy the evil consequence of, to repair, as a loss or damadge.
Retrieve (v. i.) To discover and bring in game that has been killed or wounded; as, a dog naturally inclined to retrieve.
Retrieve (n.) A seeking again; a discovery.
Retrieve (n.) The recovery of game once sprung; -- an old sporting term.
Retrievement (n.) Retrieval.
Retriever (n.) One who retrieves.
Retriever (n.) A dor, or a breed of dogs, chiefly employed to retrieve, or to find and recover game birds that have been killed or wounded.
Retrim (v. t.) To trim again.
Retriment (n.) Refuse; dregs.
Retro- () A prefix or combining form signifying backward, back; as, retroact, to act backward; retrospect, a looking back.
Retroact (v. i.) To act backward, or in return; to act in opposition; to be retrospective.
Retroaction (n.) Action returned, or action backward.
Retroaction (n.) Operation on something past or preceding.
Retroactive (a.) Fitted or designed to retroact; operating by returned action; affecting what is past; retrospective.
Retroactively (adv.) In a retroactive manner.
Retrocede (v. t.) To cede or grant back; as, to retrocede a territory to a former proprietor.
Retrocede (v. i.) To go back.
Retrocedent (a.) Disposed or likely to retrocede; -- said of diseases which go from one part of the body to another, as the gout.
Retrocession (n.) The act of retroceding.
Retrocession (n.) The state of being retroceded, or granted back.
Retrocession (n.) Metastasis of an eruption or a tumor from the surface to the interior of the body.
Retrochoir (n.) Any extension of a church behind the high altar, as a chapel; also, in an apsidal church, all the space beyond the line of the back or eastern face of the altar.
Retrocopulant (a.) Copulating backward, or from behind.
Retrocopulation (n.) Copulation from behind.
Retroduction (n.) A leading or bringing back.
Retroflex (a.) Alt. of Retroflexed
Retroflexed (a.) Reflexed; bent or turned abruptly backward.
Retroflexion (n.) The act of reflexing; the state of being retroflexed. Cf. Retroversion.
Retrofract (a.) Alt. of Retrofracted
Retrofracted (a.) Refracted; as, a retrofract stem.
Retrogenerative (a.) Begetting young by retrocopulation.
Retrogradation (n.) The act of retrograding, or moving backward.
Retrogradation (n.) The state of being retrograde; decline.
Retrograde (a.) Apparently moving backward, and contrary to the succession of the signs, that is, from east to west, as a planet.
Retrograde (a.) Tending or moving backward; having a backward course; contrary; as, a retrograde motion; -- opposed to progressive.
Retrograde (a.) Declining from a better to a worse state; as, a retrograde people; retrograde ideas, morals, etc.
Retrograded (imp. & p. p.) of Retrograde
Retrograding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retrograde
Retrograde (v. i.) To go in a retrograde direction; to move, or appear to move, backward, as a planet.
Retrograde (v. i.) Hence, to decline from a better to a worse condition, as in morals or intelligence.
Retrogradingly (adv.) By retrograding; so as to retrograde.
Retrogress (n.) Retrogression.
Retrogression (n.) The act of retrograding, or going backward; retrogradation.
Retrogression (n.) Backward development; a passing from a higher to a lower state of organization or structure, as when an animal, approaching maturity, becomes less highly organized than would be expected from its earlier stages or known relationship. Called also retrograde development, and regressive metamorphism.
Retrogressive (a.) Tending to retrograde; going or moving backward; declining from a better to a worse state.
Retrogressive (a.) Passing from a higher to a lower condition; declining from a more perfect state of organization; regressive.
Retrogressively (adv.) In a retrogressive manner.
Retromingency (n.) The quality or state of being retromingent.
Retromingent (a.) Organized so as to discharge the urine backward.
Retromingent (n.) An animal that discharges its urine backward.
Retropulsive (a.) Driving back; repelling.
Retrorse (a.) Bent backward or downward.
Retrospect (v. i.) To look backward; hence, to affect or concern what is past.
Retrospect (n.) A looking back on things past; view or contemplation of the past.
Retrospection (n.) The act, or the faculty, of looking back on things past.
Retrospective (a.) Looking backward; contemplating things past; -- opposed to prospective; as, a retrospective view.
Retrospective (a.) Having reference to what is past; affecting things past; retroactive; as, a retrospective law.
Retrospectively (adv.) By way of retrospect.
Retrousse (a.) Turned up; -- said of a pug nose.
Retrovaccination (n.) The inoculation of a cow with human vaccine virus.
Retroversion (n.) A turning or bending backward; also, the state of being turned or bent backward; displacement backwards; as, retroversion of the uterus.
Retroverted (imp. & p. p.) of Retrovert
Retroverting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retrovert
Retrovert (v. t.) To turn back.
Retroverted (a.) In a state of retroversion.
Retruded (imp. & p. p.) of Retrude
Retruding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Retrude
Retrude (v. t.) To thrust back.
Retruse (a.) Abstruse.
Retrusion (n.) The act of retruding, or the state of being retruded.
Retry (v. t.) To try (esp. judicially) a second time; as, to retry a case; to retry an accused person.
Rette (v. t.) See Aret.
Rettery (n.) A place or establishment where flax is retted. See Ret.
Retting (n.) The act or process of preparing flax for use by soaking, maceration, and kindred processes; -- also called rotting. See Ret.
Retting (n.) A place where flax is retted; a rettery.
Retund (v. t.) To blunt; to turn, as an edge; figuratively, to cause to be obtuse or dull; as, to retund confidence.
Re-turn (v. t. & i.) To turn again.
Returned (imp. & p. p.) of Return
Returning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Return
Return (v. i.) To turn back; to go or come again to the same place or condition.
Return (v. i.) To come back, or begin again, after an interval, regular or irregular; to appear again.
Return (v. i.) To speak in answer; to reply; to respond.
Return (v. i.) To revert; to pass back into possession.
Return (v. i.) To go back in thought, narration, or argument.
Return (v. t.) To bring, carry, send, or turn, back; as, to return a borrowed book, or a hired horse.
Return (v. t.) To repay; as, to return borrowed money.
Return (v. t.) To give in requital or recompense; to requite.
Return (v. t.) To give back in reply; as, to return an answer; to return thanks.
Return (v. t.) To retort; to throw back; as, to return the lie.
Return (v. t.) To report, or bring back and make known.
Return (v. t.) To render, as an account, usually an official account, to a superior; to report officially by a list or statement; as, to return a list of stores, of killed or wounded; to return the result of an election.
Return (v. t.) Hence, to elect according to the official report of the election officers.
Return (v. t.) To bring or send back to a tribunal, or to an office, with a certificate of what has been done; as, to return a writ.
Return (v. t.) To convey into official custody, or to a general depository.
Return (v. t.) To bat (the ball) back over the net.
Return (v. t.) To lead in response to the lead of one's partner; as, to return a trump; to return a diamond for a club.
Return (n.) The act of returning (intransitive), or coming back to the same place or condition; as, the return of one long absent; the return of health; the return of the seasons, or of an anniversary.
Return (n.) The act of returning (transitive), or sending back to the same place or condition; restitution; repayment; requital; retribution; as, the return of anything borrowed, as a book or money; a good return in tennis.
Return (n.) That which is returned.
Return (n.) A payment; a remittance; a requital.
Return (n.) An answer; as, a return to one's question.
Return (n.) An account, or formal report, of an action performed, of a duty discharged, of facts or statistics, and the like; as, election returns; a return of the amount of goods produced or sold; especially, in the plural, a set of tabulated statistics prepared for general information.
Return (n.) The profit on, or advantage received from, labor, or an investment, undertaking, adventure, etc.
Return (n.) The continuation in a different direction, most often at a right angle, of a building, face of a building, or any member, as a molding or mold; -- applied to the shorter in contradistinction to the longer; thus, a facade of sixty feet east and west has a return of twenty feet north and south.
Return (n.) The rendering back or delivery of writ, precept, or execution, to the proper officer or court.
Return (n.) The certificate of an officer stating what he has done in execution of a writ, precept, etc., indorsed on the document.
Return (n.) The sending back of a commission with the certificate of the commissioners.
Return (n.) A day in bank. See Return day, below.
Return (n.) An official account, report, or statement, rendered to the commander or other superior officer; as, the return of men fit for duty; the return of the number of the sick; the return of provisions, etc.
Return (n.) The turnings and windings of a trench or mine.
Returnable (a.) Capable of, or admitting of, being returned.
Returnable (a.) Legally required to be returned, delivered, given, or rendered; as, a writ or precept returnable at a certain day; a verdict returnable to the court.
Returner (n.) One who returns.
Returnless (a.) Admitting no return.
Retuse (a.) Having the end rounded and slightly indented; as, a retuse leaf.
Reule (n.& v.) Rule.
Reume (n.) Realm.
Reunion (n.) A second union; union formed anew after separation, secession, or discord; as, a reunion of parts or particles of matter; a reunion of parties or sects.
Reunion (n.) An assembling of persons who have been separated, as of a family, or the members of a disbanded regiment; an assembly so composed.
Reunite (v. t. & i.) To unite again; to join after separation or variance.
Reunitedly (adv.) In a reunited manner.
Reunition (n.) A second uniting.
Reurge (v. t.) To urge again.
Revaccinate (v. t.) To vaccinate a second time or again.
Revalescence (n.) The act of growing well; the state of being revalescent.
Revalescent (a.) Growing well; recovering strength.
Revaluation (n.) A second or new valuation.
Revamp (v. t.) To vamp again; hence, to patch up; to reconstruct.
Reve (v. t.) To reave.
Reve (n.) An officer, steward, or governor.
Revealed (imp. & p. p.) of Reveal
Revealing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reveal
Reveal (v. t.) To make known (that which has been concealed or kept secret); to unveil; to disclose; to show.
Reveal (v. t.) Specifically, to communicate (that which could not be known or discovered without divine or supernatural instruction or agency).
Reveal (n.) A revealing; a disclosure.
Reveal (n.) The side of an opening for a window, doorway, or the like, between the door frame or window frame and the outer surface of the wall; or, where the opening is not filled with a door, etc., the whole thickness of the wall; the jamb.
Revealability (n.) The quality or state of being revealable; revealableness.
Revealable (a.) Capable of being revealed.
Revealer (n.) One who, or that which, reveals.
Revealment (n.) Act of revealing.
Revegetate (v. i.) To vegetate anew.
Reveille (n.) The beat of drum, or bugle blast, about break of day, to give notice that it is time for the soldiers to rise, and for the sentinels to forbear challenging.
Revel (n.) See Reveal.
Revel (v. i.) A feast with loose and noisy jollity; riotous festivity or merrymaking; a carousal.
Reveled (imp. & p. p.) of Revel
Revelled () of Revel
Reveling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revel
Revelling () of Revel
Revel (v. i.) To feast in a riotous manner; to carouse; to act the bacchanalian; to make merry.
Revel (v. i.) To move playfully; to indulge without restraint.
Revel (v. t.) To draw back; to retract.
Revelate (v. t.) To reveal.
Revelation (n.) The act of revealing, disclosing, or discovering to others what was before unknown to them.
Revelation (n.) That which is revealed.
Revelation (n.) The act of revealing divine truth.
Revelation (n.) That which is revealed by God to man; esp., the Bible.
Revelation (n.) Specifically, the last book of the sacred canon, containing the prophecies of St. John; the Apocalypse.
Revelator (n.) One who makes a revelation; a revealer.
Reveler (n.) One who revels.
Revellent (v. t.) Causing revulsion; revulsive.
Revellent (n.) A revulsive medicine.
Revelment (n.) The act of reveling.
Revelous (a.) Fond of festivity; given to merrymaking or reveling.
Revel-rout (n.) Tumultuous festivity; revelry.
Revel-rout (n.) A rabble; a riotous assembly; a mob.
Revelry (n.) The act of engaging in a revel; noisy festivity; reveling.
Revendicated (imp. & p. p.) of Revendicate
Revendicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revendicate
Revendicate (v. t.) To reclaim; to demand the restoration of.
Revendication (n.) The act of revendicating.
Revenged (imp. & p. p.) of Revenge
Revenging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revenge
Revenge (v. t.) To inflict harm in return for, as an injury, insult, etc.; to exact satisfaction for, under a sense of injury; to avenge; -- followed either by the wrong received, or by the person or thing wronged, as the object, or by the reciprocal pronoun as direct object, and a preposition before the wrong done or the wrongdoer.
Revenge (v. t.) To inflict injury for, in a spiteful, wrong, or malignant spirit; to wreak vengeance for maliciously.
Revenge (v. i.) To take vengeance; -- with
Revenge (n.) The act of revenging; vengeance; retaliation; a returning of evil for evil.
Revenge (n.) The disposition to revenge; a malignant wishing of evil to one who has done us an injury.
Revengeable (a.) Capable of being revenged; as, revengeable wrong.
Revengeance (n.) Vengeance; revenge.
Revengeful (a.) Full of, or prone to, revenge; vindictive; malicious; revenging; wreaking revenge.
Revengeless (a.) Unrevenged.
Revengement (n.) Revenge.
Revenger (n.) One who revenges.
Revenging (a.) Executing revenge; revengeful.
Revenue (n.) That which returns, or comes back, from an investment; the annual rents, profits, interest, or issues of any species of property, real or personal; income.
Revenue (n.) Hence, return; reward; as, a revenue of praise.
Revenue (n.) The annual yield of taxes, excise, customs, duties, rents, etc., which a nation, state, or municipality collects and receives into the treasury for public use.
Reverb (v. t.) To echo.
Reverberant (a.) Having the quality of reverberation; reverberating.
Reverberate (a.) Reverberant.
Reverberate (a.) Driven back, as sound; reflected.
Reverberated (imp. & p. p.) of Reverberate
Reverberating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reverberate
Reverberate (v. t.) To return or send back; to repel or drive back; to echo, as sound; to reflect, as light, as light or heat.
Reverberate (v. t.) To send or force back; to repel from side to side; as, flame is reverberated in a furnace.
Reverberate (v. t.) Hence, to fuse by reverberated heat.
Reverberate (v. i.) To resound; to echo.
Reverberate (v. i.) To be driven back; to be reflected or repelled, as rays of light; to be echoed, as sound.
Reverberation (n.) The act of reverberating; especially, the act of reflecting light or heat, or reechoing sound; as, the reverberation of rays from a mirror; the reverberation of rays from a mirror; the reverberation of voices; the reverberation of heat or flame in a furnace.
Reverberative (a.) Of the nature of reverberation; tending to reverberate; reflective.
Reverberator (n.) One who, or that which, produces reverberation.
Reverberatory (a.) Producing reverberation; acting by reverberation; reverberative.
Reverberatory (n.) A reverberatory furnace.
Reverdure (v. t.) To cover again with verdure.
Revered (imp. & p. p.) of Revere
Revering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revere
Revere (v. t.) To regard with reverence, or profound respect and affection, mingled with awe or fear; to venerate; to reverence; to honor in estimation.
Reverence (n.) Profound respect and esteem mingled with fear and affection, as for a holy being or place; the disposition to revere; veneration.
Reverence (n.) The act of revering; a token of respect or veneration; an obeisance.
Reverence (n.) That which deserves or exacts manifestations of reverence; reverend character; dignity; state.
Reverence (n.) A person entitled to be revered; -- a title applied to priests or other ministers with the pronouns his or your; sometimes poetically to a father.
Reverenced (imp. & p. p.) of Reverence
Reverencing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reverence
Reverence (v. t.) To regard or treat with reverence; to regard with respect and affection mingled with fear; to venerate.
Reverencer (n.) One who regards with reverence.
Reverend (a.) Worthy of reverence; entitled to respect mingled with fear and affection; venerable.
Reverendly (adv.) Reverently.
Reverent (a.) Disposed to revere; impressed with reverence; submissive; humble; respectful; as, reverent disciples.
Reverent (a.) Expressing reverence, veneration, devotion, or submission; as, reverent words; reverent behavior.
Reverential (a.) Proceeding from, or expressing, reverence; having a reverent quality; reverent; as, reverential fear or awe.
Reverentially (adv.) In a reverential manner.
Reverently (adv.) In a reverent manner; in respectful regard.
Reverer (n.) One who reveres.
Reveries (pl. ) of Revery
Reverie (n.) Alt. of Revery
Revery (n.) A loose or irregular train of thought occurring in musing or mediation; deep musing; daydream.
Revery (n.) An extravagant conceit of the fancy; a vision.
Reversal (a.) Intended to reverse; implying reversal.
Reversal (n.) The act of reversing; the causing to move or face in an opposite direction, or to stand or lie in an inverted position; as, the reversal of a rotating wheel; the reversal of objects by a convex lens.
Reversal (n.) A change or overthrowing; as, the reversal of a judgment, which amounts to an official declaration that it is false; the reversal of an attainder, or of an outlawry, by which the sentence is rendered void.
Reverse (a.) Turned backward; having a contrary or opposite direction; hence; opposite or contrary in kind; as, the reverse order or method.
Reverse (a.) Turned upside down; greatly disturbed.
Reverse (a.) Reversed; as, a reverse shell.
Reverse (a.) That which appears or is presented when anything, as a lance, a line, a course of conduct, etc., is reverted or turned contrary to its natural direction.
Reverse (a.) That which is directly opposite or contrary to something else; a contrary; an opposite.
Reverse (a.) The act of reversing; complete change; reversal; hence, total change in circumstances or character; especially, a change from better to worse; misfortune; a check or defeat; as, the enemy met with a reverse.
Reverse (a.) The back side; as, the reverse of a drum or trench; the reverse of a medal or coin, that is, the side opposite to the obverse. See Obverse.
Reverse (a.) A thrust in fencing made with a backward turn of the hand; a backhanded stroke.
Reverse (a.) A turn or fold made in bandaging, by which the direction of the bandage is changed.
Reversed (imp. & p. p.) of Reverse
Reversing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reverse
Reverse (a.) To turn back; to cause to face in a contrary direction; to cause to depart.
Reverse (a.) To cause to return; to recall.
Reverse (a.) To change totally; to alter to the opposite.
Reverse (a.) To turn upside down; to invert.
Reverse (a.) Hence, to overthrow; to subvert.
Reverse (a.) To overthrow by a contrary decision; to make void; to under or annual for error; as, to reverse a judgment, sentence, or decree.
Reverse (v. i.) To return; to revert.
Reverse (v. i.) To become or be reversed.
Reversed (a.) Turned side for side, or end for end; changed to the contrary; specifically (Bot. & Zool.), sinistrorse or sinistral; as, a reversed, or sinistral, spiral or shell.
Reversed (a.) Annulled and the contrary substituted; as, a reversed judgment or decree.
Reversedly (adv.) In a reversed way.
Reverseless (a.) Irreversible.
Reversely (adv.) In a reverse manner; on the other hand; on the opposite.
Reverser (n.) One who reverses.
Reversibility (n.) The quality of being reversible.
Reversible (a.) Capable of being reversed; as, a chair or seat having a reversible back; a reversible judgment or sentence.
Reversible (a.) Hence, having a pattern or finished surface on both sides, so that either may be used; -- said of fabrics.
Reversibly (adv.) In a reversible manner.
Reversing (a.) Serving to effect reversal, as of motion; capable of being reversed.
Reversion (n.) The act of returning, or coming back; return.
Reversion (n.) That which reverts or returns; residue.
Reversion (n.) The returning of an esttate to the grantor or his heirs, by operation of law, after the grant has terminated; hence, the residue of an estate left in the proprietor or owner thereof, to take effect in possession, by operation of law, after the termination of a limited or less estate carved out of it and conveyed by him.
Reversion (n.) Hence, a right to future possession or enjoiment; succession.
Reversion (n.) A payment which is not to be received, or a benefit which does not begin, until the happening of some event, as the death of a living person.
Reversion (n.) A return towards some ancestral type or character; atavism.
Reversionary (a.) Of or pertaining to a reversion; involving a reversion; to be enjoyed in succession, or after the termination of a particular estate; as, a reversionary interest or right.
Reversionary (n.) That which is to be received in reversion.
Reversioner (n.) One who has a reversion, or who is entitled to lands or tenements, after a particular estate granted is terminated.
Reversis (n.) A certain game at cards.
Reverted (imp. & p. p.) of Revert
Reverting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revert
Revert (v. t.) To turn back, or to the contrary; to reverse.
Revert (v. t.) To throw back; to reflect; to reverberate.
Revert (v. t.) To change back. See Revert, v. i.
Revert (v. i.) To return; to come back.
Revert (v. i.) To return to the proprietor after the termination of a particular estate granted by him.
Revert (v. i.) To return, wholly or in part, towards some preexistent form; to take on the traits or characters of an ancestral type.
Revert (v. i.) To change back, as from a soluble to an insoluble state or the reverse; thus, phosphoric acid in certain fertilizers reverts.
Revert (n.) One who, or that which, reverts.
Reverted (a.) Turned back; reversed. Specifically: (Her.) Bent or curved twice, in opposite directions, or in the form of an S.
Revertent (n.) A remedy which restores the natural order of the inverted irritative motions in the animal system.
Reverter (n.) One who, or that which, reverts.
Reverter (n.) Reversion.
Revertible (a.) Capable of, or admitting of, reverting or being reverted; as, a revertible estate.
Revertive (a.) Reverting, or tending to revert; returning.
Revery (n.) Same as Reverie.
Revest (v. t.) To clothe again; to cover, as with a robe; to robe.
Revest (v. t.) To vest again with possession or office; as, to revest a magistrate with authority.
Revest (v. i.) To take effect or vest again, as a title; to revert to former owner; as, the title or right revests in A after alienation.
Revestiary (n.) The apartment, in a church or temple, where the vestments, etc., are kept; -- now contracted into vestry.
Revestry (n.) Same as Revestiary.
Revestture (n.) Vesture.
Revetted (imp. & p. p.) of Revet
Revetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revet
Revet (v. t.) To face, as an embankment, with masonry, wood, or other material.
Revetment (v. t.) A facing of wood, stone, or any other material, to sustain an embankment when it receives a slope steeper than the natural slope; also, a retaining wall.
Revibrate (v. i.) To vibrate back or in return.
Revict (v. t.) To reconquer.
Reviction (n.) Return to life.
Revictual (v. t.) To victual again.
Revie (v. t.) To vie with, or rival, in return.
Revie (v. t.) To meet a wager on, as on the taking of a trick, with a higher wager.
Revie (v. i.) To exceed an adversary's wager in card playing.
Revie (v. i.) To make a retort; to bandy words.
Review/d (imp. & p. p.) of Review
Reveiwing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Review
Review (n.) To view or see again; to look back on.
Review (n.) To go over and examine critically or deliberately.
Review (n.) To reconsider; to revise, as a manuscript before printing it, or a book for a new edition.
Review (n.) To go over with critical examination, in order to discover exellences or defects; hence, to write a critical notice of; as, to review a new novel.
Review (n.) To make a formal or official examination of the state of, as troops, and the like; as, to review a regiment.
Review (n.) To reexamine judically; as, a higher court may review the proceedings and judgments of a lower one.
Review (n.) To retrace; to go over again.
Review (v. i.) To look back; to make a review.
Review (n.) A second or repeated view; a reexamination; a retrospective survey; a looking over again; as, a review of one's studies; a review of life.
Review (n.) An examination with a view to amendment or improvement; revision; as, an author's review of his works.
Review (n.) A critical examination of a publication, with remarks; a criticism; a critique.
Review (n.) A periodical containing critical essays upon matters of interest, as new productions in literature, art, etc.
Review (n.) An inspection, as of troops under arms or of a naval force, by a high officer, for the purpose of ascertaining the state of discipline, equipments, etc.
Review (n.) The judicial examination of the proceedings of a lower court by a higher.
Review (n.) A lesson studied or recited for a second time.
Reviewable (a.) Capable of being reviewed.
Reviewal (n.) A review.
Reviewer (n.) One who reviews or reexamines; an inspector; one who examines publications critically, and publishes his opinion upon their merits; a professional critic of books.
Revigorate (a.) Having new vigor or strength; invigorated anew.
Revigorate (v. t.) To give new vigor to.
Reviled (imp. & p. p.) of Revile
Reviling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revile
Revile (v. t. & i.) To address or abuse with opprobrious and contemptuous language; to reproach.
Revile (n.) Reproach; reviling.
Revilement (n.) The act of reviling; also, contemptuous language; reproach; abuse.
Reviler (n.) One who reviles.
Reviling (n.) Reproach; abuse; vilification.
Reviling (a.) Uttering reproaches; containing reproaches.
Revince (v. t.) To overcome; to refute, as error.
Revindicate (v. t.) To vindicate again; to reclaim; to demand and take back.
Revirescence (n.) A growing green or fresh again; renewal of youth or vigor.
Revisable (a.) That may be revised.
Revisal (n.) The act of revising, or reviewing and reexamining for correction and improvement; revision; as, the revisal of a manuscript; the revisal of a proof sheet; the revisal of a treaty.
Revised (imp. & p. p.) of Revise
Revising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revise
Revise (v. t.) To look at again for the detection of errors; to reexamine; to review; to look over with care for correction; as, to revise a writing; to revise a translation.
Revise (v. t.) To compare (a proof) with a previous proof of the same matter, and mark again such errors as have not been corrected in the type.
Revise (v. t.) To review, alter, and amend; as, to revise statutes; to revise an agreement; to revise a dictionary.
Revise (n.) A review; a revision.
Revise (n.) A second proof sheet; a proof sheet taken after the first or a subsequent correction.
Reviser (n.) One who revises.
Revision (n.) The act of revising; reexamination for correction; review; as, the revision of a book or writing, or of a proof sheet; a revision of statutes.
Revision (n.) That which is made by revising.
Revisional (a.) Alt. of Revisionary
Revisionary (a.) Of or pertaining to revision; revisory.
Revisit (v. t.) To visit again.
Revisit (v. t.) To revise.
Revisitation (n.) The act of revisiting.
Revisory (a.) Having the power or purpose to revise; revising.
Revitalize (v. t.) To restore vitality to; to bring back to life.
Revivable (a.) That may be revived.
Revival (n.) The act of reviving, or the state of being revived.
Revival (n.) Renewed attention to something, as to letters or literature.
Revival (n.) Renewed performance of, or interest in, something, as the drama and literature.
Revival (n.) Renewed interest in religion, after indifference and decline; a period of religious awakening; special religious interest.
Revival (n.) Reanimation from a state of langour or depression; -- applied to the health, spirits, and the like.
Revival (n.) Renewed pursuit, or cultivation, or flourishing state of something, as of commerce, arts, agriculture.
Revival (n.) Renewed prevalence of something, as a practice or a fashion.
Revival (n.) Restoration of force, validity, or effect; renewal; as, the revival of a debt barred by limitation; the revival of a revoked will, etc.
Revival (n.) Revivification, as of a metal. See Revivification, 2.
Revivalism (n.) The spirit of religious revivals; the methods of revivalists.
Revivalist (n.) A clergyman or layman who promotes revivals of religion; an advocate for religious revivals; sometimes, specifically, a clergyman, without a particular charge, who goes about to promote revivals. Also used adjectively.
Revivalistic (a.) Pertaining to revivals.
Revived (imp. & p. p.) of Revive
Reviving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revive
Revive (v. i.) To return to life; to recover life or strength; to live anew; to become reanimated or reinvigorated.
Revive (v. i.) Hence, to recover from a state of oblivion, obscurity, neglect, or depression; as, classical learning revived in the fifteenth century.
Revive (v. i.) To recover its natural or metallic state, as a metal.
Revive (v. i.) To restore, or bring again to life; to reanimate.
Revive (v. i.) To raise from coma, languor, depression, or discouragement; to bring into action after a suspension.
Revive (v. i.) Hence, to recover from a state of neglect or disuse; as, to revive letters or learning.
Revive (v. i.) To renew in the mind or memory; to bring to recollection; to recall attention to; to reawaken.
Revive (v. i.) To restore or reduce to its natural or metallic state; as, to revive a metal after calcination.
Revivement (n.) Revival.
Reviver (n.) One who, or that which, revives.
Revivificate (v. t.) To revive; to recall or restore to life.
Revivification (n.) Renewal of life; restoration of life; the act of recalling, or the state of being recalled, to life.
Revivification (n.) The reduction of a metal from a state of combination to its metallic state.
Revivify (v. t.) To cause to revive.
Reviving (a. & n.) Returning or restoring to life or vigor; reanimating.
Reviviscence (n.) Alt. of Reviviscency
Reviviscency (n.) The act of reviving, or the state of being revived; renewal of life.
Reviviscent (a.) Able or disposed to revive; reviving.
Revivor (n.) Revival of a suit which is abated by the death or marriage of any of the parties, -- done by a bill of revivor.
Revocability (n.) The quality of being revocable; as, the revocability of a law.
Revocable (a.) Capable of being revoked; as, a revocable edict or grant; a revocable covenant.
Revocate (v. t.) To recall; to call back.
Revocation (n.) The act of calling back, or the state of being recalled; recall.
Revocation (n.) The act by which one, having the right, annuls an act done, a power or authority given, or a license, gift, or benefit conferred; repeal; reversal; as, the revocation of an edict, a power, a will, or a license.
Revocatory (a.) Of or pertaining to revocation; tending to, or involving, a revocation; revoking; recalling.
Revoice (v. t.) To refurnish with a voice; to refit, as an organ pipe, so as to restore its tone.
Revoked (imp. & p. p.) of Revoke
Revoking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revoke
Revoke (v. t.) To call or bring back; to recall.
Revoke (v. t.) Hence, to annul, by recalling or taking back; to repeal; to rescind; to cancel; to reverse, as anything granted by a special act; as, , to revoke a will, a license, a grant, a permission, a law, or the like.
Revoke (v. t.) To hold back; to repress; to restrain.
Revoke (v. t.) To draw back; to withdraw.
Revoke (v. t.) To call back to mind; to recollect.
Revoke (v. i.) To fail to follow suit when holding a card of the suit led, in violation of the rule of the game; to renege.
Revoke (n.) The act of revoking.
Revokement (n.) Revocation.
Revoker (n.) One who revokes.
Revokingly (adv.) By way of revocation.
Revolted (imp. & p. p.) of Revolt
Revolting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revolt
Revolt (n.) To turn away; to abandon or reject something; specifically, to turn away, or shrink, with abhorrence.
Revolt (n.) Hence, to be faithless; to desert one party or leader for another; especially, to renounce allegiance or subjection; to rise against a government; to rebel.
Revolt (n.) To be disgusted, shocked, or grossly offended; hence, to feel nausea; -- with at; as, the stomach revolts at such food; his nature revolts at cruelty.
Revolt (v. t.) To cause to turn back; to roll or drive back; to put to flight.
Revolt (v. t.) To do violence to; to cause to turn away or shrink with abhorrence; to shock; as, to revolt the feelings.
Revolt (n.) The act of revolting; an uprising against legitimate authority; especially, a renunciation of allegiance and subjection to a government; rebellion; as, the revolt of a province of the Roman empire.
Revolt (n.) A revolter.
Revolter (n.) One who revolts.
Revolting (a.) Causing abhorrence mixed with disgust; exciting extreme repugnance; loathsome; as, revolting cruelty.
Revoluble (a.) Capable of revolving; rotatory; revolving.
Revolute (a.) Rolled backward or downward.
Revolution (n.) The act of revolving, or turning round on an axis or a center; the motion of a body round a fixed point or line; rotation; as, the revolution of a wheel, of a top, of the earth on its axis, etc.
Revolution (n.) Return to a point before occupied, or to a point relatively the same; a rolling back; return; as, revolution in an ellipse or spiral.
Revolution (n.) The space measured by the regular return of a revolving body; the period made by the regular recurrence of a measure of time, or by a succession of similar events.
Revolution (n.) The motion of any body, as a planet or satellite, in a curved line or orbit, until it returns to the same point again, or to a point relatively the same; -- designated as the annual, anomalistic, nodical, sidereal, or tropical revolution, according as the point of return or completion has a fixed relation to the year, the anomaly, the nodes, the stars, or the tropics; as, the revolution of the earth about the sun; the revolution of the moon about the earth.
Revolution (n.) The motion of a point, line, or surface about a point or line as its center or axis, in such a manner that a moving point generates a curve, a moving line a surface (called a surface of revolution), and a moving surface a solid (called a solid of revolution); as, the revolution of a right-angled triangle about one of its sides generates a cone; the revolution of a semicircle about the diameter generates a sphere.
Revolution (n.) A total or radical change; as, a revolution in one's circumstances or way of living.
Revolution (n.) A fundamental change in political organization, or in a government or constitution; the overthrow or renunciation of one government, and the substitution of another, by the governed.
Revolutionary (a.) Of or pertaining to a revolution in government; tending to, or promoting, revolution; as, revolutionary war; revolutionary measures; revolutionary agitators.
Revolutionary (n.) A revolutionist.
Revolutioner (n.) One who is engaged in effecting a revolution; a revolutionist.
Revolutionism (n.) The state of being in revolution; revolutionary doctrines or principles.
Revolutionist (n.) One engaged in effecting a change of government; a favorer of revolution.
Revolutioniezed (imp. & p. p.) of Revolutionize
Revolutionizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revolutionize
Revolutionize (v. t.) To change completely, as by a revolution; as, to revolutionize a government.
Revolutive (a.) Inclined to revolve things in the mind; meditative.
Revolvable (a.) That may be revolved.
Revolved (imp. & p. p.) of Revolve
Revolving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Revolve
Revolve (v. i.) To turn or roll round on, or as on, an axis, like a wheel; to rotate, -- which is the more specific word in this sense.
Revolve (v. i.) To move in a curved path round a center; as, the planets revolve round the sun.
Revolve (v. i.) To pass in cycles; as, the centuries revolve.
Revolve (v. i.) To return; to pass.
Revolve (v. t.) To cause to turn, as on an axis.
Revolve (v. t.) Hence, to turn over and over in the mind; to reflect repeatedly upon; to consider all aspects of.
Revolvement (n.) Act of revolving.
Revolvency (n.) The act or state of revolving; revolution.
Revolver (n.) One who, or that which, revolves; specifically, a firearm ( commonly a pistol) with several chambers or barrels so arranged as to revolve on an axis, and be discharged in succession by the same lock; a repeater.
Revolving (a.) Making a revolution or revolutions; rotating; -- used also figuratively of time, seasons, etc., depending on the revolution of the earth.
Revulse (v. t.) To pull back with force.
Revulsion (n.) A strong pulling or drawing back; withdrawal.
Revulsion (n.) A sudden reaction; a sudden and complete change; -- applied to the feelings.
Revulsion (n.) The act of turning or diverting any disease from one part of the body to another. It resembles derivation, but is usually applied to a more active form of counter irritation.
Revulsive (a.) Causing, or tending to, revulsion.
Revulsive (n.) That which causes revulsion; specifically (Med.), a revulsive remedy or agent.
Rew (n.) A row.
Rewake (v. t. & i.) To wake again.
Rewarded (imp. & p. p.) of Reward
Rewarding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Reward
Reward (v. t.) To give in return, whether good or evil; -- commonly in a good sense; to requite; to recompense; to repay; to compensate.
Reward (n.) Regard; respect; consideration.
Reward (n.) That which is given in return for good or evil done or received; esp., that which is offered or given in return for some service or attainment, as for excellence in studies, for the return of something lost, etc.; recompense; requital.
Reward (n.) Hence, the fruit of one's labor or works.
Reward (n.) Compensation or remuneration for services; a sum of money paid or taken for doing, or forbearing to do, some act.
Rewardable (a.) Worthy of reward.
Rewarder (n.) One who rewards.
Rewardful (a.) Yielding reward.
Rewardless (a.) Having, or affording, no reward.
Rewe (v. t. & i.) To rue.
Rewel bone () An obsolete phrase of disputed meaning, -- perhaps, smooth or polished bone.
Rewet (n.) A gunlock.
Rewful (a.) Rueful.
Rewin (v. t.) To win again, or win back.
Rewle (n. & v.) Rule.
Rewme (n.) Realm.
Reword (v. t.) To repeat in the same words; to reecho.
Reword (v. t.) To alter the wording of; to restate in other words; as, to reword an idea or a passage.
Rewrite (v. t.) To write again.
Rewth (n.) Ruth.
Reges (pl. ) of Rex
Rex (n.) A king.
Reyn (n.) Rain or rein.
Reynard (n.) An appelation applied after the manner of a proper name to the fox. Same as Renard.
Reyse (v. t.) To raise.
Reyse (v. i.) To go on a military expedition.
Rhabarbarate (a.) Impregnated or tinctured with rhubarb.
Rhabarbarin (n.) Alt. of Rhabarbarine
Rhabarbarine (n.) Chrysophanic acid.
Rhabdite (n.) A minute smooth rodlike or fusiform structure found in the tissues of many Turbellaria.
Rhabdite (n.) One of the hard parts forming the ovipositor of insects.
Rhabdocoela (n. pl.) A suborder of Turbellaria including those that have a simple cylindrical, or saclike, stomach, without an intestine.
Rhabdocoelous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Rhabdocoela.
Rhabdoidal (a.) See Sagittal.
Rhabdolith (n.) A minute calcareous rodlike structure found both at the surface and the bottom of the ocean; -- supposed by some to be a calcareous alga.
Rhabdology (n.) Same as Rabdology.
Rhabdom (n.) One of numerous minute rodlike structures formed of two or more cells situated behind the retinulae in the compound eyes of insects, etc. See Illust. under Ommatidium.
Rhabdomancy (n.) Same as Rabdomancy.
Rhabdomere (n.) One of the several parts composing a rhabdom.
Rhabdophora (n. pl.) An extinct division of Hydrozoa which includes the graptolities.
Rhabdopleura (n.) A genus of marine Bryozoa in which the tubular cells have a centralchitinous axis and the tentacles are borne on a bilobed lophophore. It is the type of the order Pterobranchia, or Podostomata
Rhabdosphere (n.) A minute sphere composed of rhabdoliths.
Rhachialgia (n.) See Rachialgia.
Rhachidian (a.) Of or pertaining to the rhachis; as, the rhachidian teeth of a mollusk.
Rhachiglossa (n. pl.) A division of marine gastropods having a retractile proboscis and three longitudinal rows of teeth on the radula. It includes many of the large ornamental shells, as the miters, murices, olives, purpuras, volutes, and whelks. See Illust. in Append.
Rhachilla (n.) A branch of inflorescence; the zigzag axis on which the florets are arranged in the spikelets of grasses.
Rhachiodont (a.) Having gular teeth formed by a peculiar modification of the inferior spines of some of the vertebrae, as certain South African snakes (Dasypeltis) which swallow birds' eggs and use these gular teeth to crush them.
Rhachises (pl. ) of Rhachis
Rhachides (pl. ) of Rhachis
Rhachis (n.) The spine.
Rhachis (n.) The continued stem or midrib of a pinnately compound leaf, as in a rose leaf or a fern.
Rhachis (n.) The principal axis in a raceme, spike, panicle, or corymb.
Rhachis (n.) The shaft of a feather. The rhachis of the after-shaft, or plumule, is called the hyporhachis.
Rhachis (n.) The central cord in the stem of a crinoid.
Rhachis (n.) The median part of the radula of a mollusk.
Rhachis (n.) A central cord of the ovary of nematodes.
Rhachitis (n.) See Rachitis.
Rhadamanthine (a.) Of or pertaining to Rhadamanthus; rigorously just; as, a Rhadamanthine judgment.
Rhadamanthus (n.) One of the three judges of the infernal regions; figuratively, a strictly just judge.
Rh/tian (a & n.) Rhetain.
Rh/tic (a.) Pertaining to, or of the same horizon as, certain Mesozoic strata of the Rhetian Alps. These strata are regarded as closing the Triassic period. See the Chart of Geology.
Rh/tizite (n.) A variety of the mineral cyanite.
Rhamadan (n.) See Ramadan.
Rhamnaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of shrubs and trees (Rhamnaceae, or Rhamneae) of which the buckthorn (Rhamnus) is the type. It includes also the New Jersey tea, the supple-jack, and one of the plants called lotus (Zizyphus).
Rhamnus (n.) A genus of shrubs and small trees; buckthorn. The California Rhamnus Purshianus and the European R. catharticus are used in medicine. The latter is used for hedges.
Rhamphorhynchus (n.) A genus of pterodactyls in which the elongated tail supported a leathery expansion at the tip.
Rhamphothecae (pl. ) of Rhamphotheca
Rhamphotheca (n.) The horny covering of the bill of birds.
Rhaphe (n.) The continuation of the seed stalk along the side of an anatropous ovule or seed, forming a ridge or seam.
Rhaphides (n. pl.) Minute transparent, often needle-shaped, crystals found in the tissues of plants.
Rhaponticine (n.) Chrysophanic acid.
Rhapsode (n.) A rhapsodist.
Rhapsoder (n.) A rhapsodist.
Rhapsodic (a.) Alt. of Rhapsodic
Rhapsodic (a.) Of or pertaining to rhapsody; consisting of rhapsody; hence, confused; unconnected.
Rhapsodist (n.) Anciently, one who recited or composed a rhapsody; especially, one whose profession was to recite the verses of Hormer and other epic poets.
Rhapsodist (n.) Hence, one who recites or sings poems for a livelihood; one who makes and repeats verses extempore.
Rhapsodist (n.) One who writes or speaks disconnectedly and with great excitement or affectation of feeling.
Rhapsodized (imp. & p. p.) of Rhapsodize
Rhapsodizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rhapsodize
Rhapsodize (v. t.) To utter as a rhapsody, or in the manner of a rhapsody
Rhapsodize (v. i.) To utter rhapsodies.
Rhapsodomancy (n.) Divination by means of verses.
Rhapsodies (pl. ) of Rhapsody
Rhapsody (n.) A recitation or song of a rhapsodist; a portion of an epic poem adapted for recitation, or usually recited, at one time; hence, a division of the Iliad or the Odyssey; -- called also a book.
Rhapsody (n.) A disconnected series of sentences or statements composed under excitement, and without dependence or natural connection; rambling composition.
Rhapsody (n.) A composition irregular in form, like an improvisation; as, Liszt's "Hungarian Rhapsodies."
Rhatany (n.) Alt. of Rhatanhy
Rhatanhy (n.) The powerfully astringent root of a half-shrubby Peruvian plant (Krameria triandra). It is used in medicine and to color port wine.
Rhea (n.) The ramie or grass-cloth plant. See Grass-cloth plant, under Grass.
Rhea (n.) Any one of three species of large South American ostrichlike birds of the genera Rhea and Pterocnemia. Called also the American ostrich.
Rheae (n. pl.) A suborder of struthious birds including the rheas.
Rheeboc (n.) The peele.
Rheic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid (commonly called chrysophanic acid) found in rhubarb (Rheum).
Rhein (n.) Chrysophanic acid.
Rheinberry (n.) One of the berries or drupes of the European buckthorn; also, the buckthorn itself.
Rhematic (a.) Having a verb for its base; derived from a verb; as, rhematic adjectives.
Rhematic (n.) The doctrine of propositions or sentences.
Rhemish (a.) Of or pertaining to Rheimis, or Reima, in France.
Rhenish (a.) Of or pertaining to the river Rhine; as, Rhenish wine.
Rhenish (n.) Rhine wine.
Rheochord (n.) A metallic wire used for regulating the resistance of a circuit, or varying the strength of an electric current, by inserting a greater or less length of it in the circuit.
Rheometer (n.) An instrument for measuring currents, especially the force or intensity of electrical currents; a galvanometer.
Rheometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the velocity of the blood current in the arteries.
Rheometric (a.) Of or pertaining to a rheometer or rheometry.
Rheometry (n.) The measurement of the force or intensity of currents.
Rheometry (n.) The calculus; fluxions.
Rheomotor (n.) Any apparatus by which an electrical current is originated.
Rheophore (n.) A connecting wire of an electric or voltaic apparatus, traversed by a current.
Rheophore (n.) One of the poles of a voltaic battery; an electrode.
Rheoscope (n.) An instrument for detecting the presence or movement of currents, as of electricity.
Rheostat (n.) A contrivance for adjusting or regulating the strength of electrical currents, operating usually by the intercalation of resistance which can be varied at will.
Rheotome (n.) An instrument which periodically or otherwise interrupts an electric current.
Rheotrope (n.) An instrument for reversing the direction of an electric current.
Rhesus (n.) A monkey; the bhunder.
Rhetian (a.) Pertaining to the ancient Rhaeti, or Rhaetians, or to Rhaetia, their country; as, the Rhetian Alps, now the country of Tyrol and the Grisons.
Rhetic (a.) Same as Rhaetic.
Rhetizite (n.) Same as Rhaetizite.
Rhetor (n.) A rhetorician.
Rhetoric (n.) The art of composition; especially, elegant composition in prose.
Rhetoric (n.) Oratory; the art of speaking with propriety, elegance, and force.
Rhetoric (n.) Hence, artificial eloquence; fine language or declamation without conviction or earnest feeling.
Rhetoric (n.) Fig. : The power of persuasion or attraction; that which allures or charms.
Rhetorical (a.) Of or pertaining to rhetoric; according to, or exhibiting, rhetoric; oratorical; as, the rhetorical art; a rhetorical treatise; a rhetorical flourish.
Rhetoricate (v. i.) To play the orator.
Rhetorication (n.) Rhetorical amplification.
Rhetorician (n.) One well versed in the rules and principles of rhetoric.
Rhetorician (n.) A teacher of rhetoric.
Rhetorician (n.) An orator; specifically, an artificial orator without genuine eloquence; a declaimer.
Rhetorician (a.) Suitable to a master of rhetoric.
Rhetorized (imp. & p. p.) of Rhetorize
Rhetorizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rhetorize
Rhetorize (v. i.) To play the orator.
Rhetorize (v. t.) To represent by a figure of rhetoric, or by personification.
Rheum (n.) A genus of plants. See Rhubarb.
Rheum (n.) A serous or mucous discharge, especially one from the eves or nose.
Rheumatic (a.) Derived from, or having the character of, rheum; rheumic.
Rheumatic (a.) Of or pertaining to rheumatism; as, rheumatic pains or affections; affected with rheumatism; as, a rheumatic old man; causing rheumatism; as, a rheumatic day.
Rheumatic (n.) One affected with rheumatism.
Rheumatism (n.) A general disease characterized by painful, often multiple, local inflammations, usually affecting the joints and muscles, but also extending sometimes to the deeper organs, as the heart.
Rheumatismal (a.) Of or pertaining to rheumatism.
Rheumatismoid (a.) Of or resembling rheum or rheumatism.
Rheumic (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, rheum.
Rheumides (n. pl.) The class of skin disease developed by the dartrous diathesis. See under Dartrous.
Rheumy (a.) Of or pertaining to rheum; abounding in, or causing, rheum; affected with rheum.
Rhigolene (n.) A mixture of volatile hydrocarbons intermediate between gsolene and cymogene. It is obtained in the purification of crude petroleum, and is used as a refregerant.
Rhime (n.) See Rhyme.
Rhinal (a.) Og or pertaining to the nose or olfactory organs.
Rhinaster (n.) The borele.
Rhine (n.) A water course; a ditch.
Rhinencephalic (a.) Of or pertaining to the rhinencephalon.
Rhinencephala (pl. ) of Rhinencephalon
Rhinencephalon (n.) The division of the brain in front of the prosencephalon, consisting of the two olfactory lobes from which the olfactory nerves arise.
Rhinestone (n.) A colorless stone of high luster, made of paste. It is much used as an inexpensive ornament.
Rhinitis (n.) Infllammation of the nose; esp., inflammation of the mucous membrane of the nostrils.
Rhino (n.) Gold and silver, or money.
Rhino- () A combining form from Greek //, ///, the nose, as in rhinolith, rhinology.
Rhinocerial (a.) Alt. of Rhinocerical
Rhinocerical (a.) Of or pertaining to the rhinoceros; resembling the rhinoceros, or his horn.
Rhinoceros (n.) Any pachyderm belonging to the genera Rhinoceros, Atelodus, and several allied genera of the family Rhinocerotidae, of which several living, and many extinct, species are known. They are large and powerful, and usually have either one or two stout conical median horns on the snout.
Rhinocerote (n.) A rhinoceros.
Rhinocerotic (a.) Of or pertaining to the rhinoceros.
Rhinolite (n.) Alt. of Rhinolith
Rhinolith (n.) A concretion formed within the cavities of the nose.
Rhinological (a.) Of or pertaining to rhinology.
Rhinologist (n.) One skilled in rhinology.
Rhinology (n.) The science which treats of the nose, and its diseases.
Rhinolophid (n.) Any species of the genus Rhinilophus, or family Rhinolophidae, having a horseshoe-shaped nasal crest; a horseshoe bat.
Rhinolophine (a.) Like or pertaining to the rhinolophids, or horseshoe bats.
Rhinophore (n.) One of the two tentacle-like organs on the back of the head or neck of a nudibranch or tectibranch mollusk. They are usually retractile, and often transversely furrowed or plicate, and are regarded as olfactory organs. Called also dorsal tentacles. See Illust. under Pygobranchia, and Opisthobranchia.
Rhinoplastic (a.) Of or pertaining to rhinoplasty; as, a rhinoplastic operation.
Rhinoplasty (n.) Plastic surgery of the nose to correct deformity or to replace lost tissue. Tissue may be transplanted from the patient's cheek, forehead, arm, etc., or even from another person.
Rhinopome (n.) Any old-world bat of the genus Rhinopoma. The rhinopomes have a long tail extending beyond the web, and inhabit caves and tombs.
Rhinoscleroma (n.) A rare disease of the skin, characterized by the development of very hard, more or less flattened, prominences, appearing first upon the nose and subsequently upon the neighboring parts, esp. the lips, palate, and throat.
Rhinoscope (n.) A small mirror for use in rhinoscopy.
Rhinoscopic (a.) Of or pertaining to rhinoscopy.
Rhinoscopy (n.) The examination or study of the soft palate, posterior nares, etc., by means of a laryngoscopic mirror introduced into the pharynx.
Rhinothecae (pl. ) of Rhinotheca
Rhinotheca (n.) The sheath of the upper mandible of a bird.
Rhipidoglossa (n. pl.) A division of gastropod mollusks having a large number of long, divergent, hooklike, lingual teeth in each transverse row. It includes the scutibranchs. See Illustration in Appendix.
Rhipipter (n.) One of the Rhipiptera, a group of insects having wings which fold like a fan; a strepsipter.
Rhipipteran (n.) Same as Rhipipter.
Rhizanthous (a.) Producing flowers from a rootstock, or apparently from a root.
Rhizine (n.) A rootlike filament or hair growing from the stems of mosses or on lichens; a rhizoid.
Rhizocarpous (a.) Having perennial rootstocks or bulbs, but annual flowering stems; -- said of all perennial herbs.
Rhizocephala (n. pl.) A division of Pectostraca including saclike parasites of Crustacea. They adhere by rootlike extensions of the head. See Illusration in Appendix.
Rhizodont (n.) A reptile whose teeth are rooted in sockets, as the crocodile.
Rhizogan (a.) Prodicing roots.
Rhizogen (n.) One of a proposed class of flowering plants growning on the roots of other plants and destitute of green foliage.
Rhizoid (n.) A rootlike appendage.
Rhizomata (pl. ) of Rhizoma
Rhizoma (n.) SAme as Rhizome.
Rhizomatous (a.) Having the nature or habit of a rhizome or rootstock.
Rhizome (n.) A rootstock. See Rootstock.
Rhizophaga (n. pl.) A division of marsupials. The wombat is the type.
Rhizophagous (a.) Feeding on roots; root-eating.
Rhizophora (n.) A genus of trees including the mangrove. See Mangrove.
Rhizophorous (a.) Bearing roots.
Rhizopod (n.) One of the Rhizopoda.
Rhizopoda (n. pl.) An extensive class of Protozoa, including those which have pseudopodia, by means of which they move about and take their food. The principal groups are Lobosa (or Am/bea), Helizoa, Radiolaria, and Foraminifera (or Reticularia). See Protozoa.
Rhizopodous (a.) Of or pertaining to the rhizopods.
Rhizostomata (n. pl.) A suborder of Medusae which includes very large species without marginal tentacles, but having large mouth lobes closely united at the edges. See Illust. in Appendix.
Rhizostome (n.) One of the Rhizostomata.
Rhizotaxis (n.) The arrangement of the roots of plants.
Rhob (n.) See 1st Rob.
Rhodammonium (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, rhodium and ammonia; -- said of certain complex compounds.
Rhodanate (n.) A salt of rhodanic acid; a sulphocyanate.
Rhodanic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid (commonly called sulphocyanic acid) which frms a red color with ferric salts.
Rhodeoretin (n.) Same as Convolvuln.
Rhodian (a.) Of or pertaining to Rhodes, an island of the Mediterranean.
Rhodian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Rhodes.
Rhodic (a.) Of or pertaining to rhodium; containing rhodium.
Rhodium (n.) A rare element of the light platinum group. It is found in platinum ores, and obtained free as a white inert metal which it is very difficult to fuse. Symbol Rh. Atomic weight 104.1. Specific gravity 12.
Rhodizonic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a colorless crystalline substance (called rhodizonic acid, and carboxylic acid) obtained from potassium carboxide and from certain quinones. It forms brilliant red, yellow, and purple salts.
Rhodochrosite (n.) Manganese carbonate, a rose-red mineral sometimes occuring crystallized, but generally massive with rhombohedral cleavage like calcite; -- called also dialogite.
Rhodocrinite (n.) A rose encrinite.
Rhododendron (n.) A genus of shrubs or small trees, often having handsome evergreen leaves, and remarkable for the beauty of their flowers; rosebay.
Rhodomontade (n.) See Rodomontade.
Rhodomontader (n.) See Rodomontador.
Rhodonite (n.) Manganese spar, or silicate of manganese, a mineral occuring crystallised and in rose-red masses. It is often used as an ornamental stone.
Rhodophane (n.) The red pigment contained in the inner segments of the cones of the retina in animals. See Chromophane.
Rhodopsin (n.) The visual purple. See under Visual.
Rhodosperm (n.) Any seaweed with red spores.
Rhomb (n.) An equilateral parallelogram, or quadrilateral figure whose sides are equal and the opposite sides parallel. The angles may be unequal, two being obtuse and two acute, as in the cut, or the angles may be equal, in which case it is usually called a square.
Rhomb (n.) A rhombohedron.
Rhombic (a.) Shaped like a rhomb.
Rhombic (a.) Same as Orthorhombic.
Rhomboganoid (n.) A ganoid fish having rhombic enameled scales; one of the Rhomboganoidei.
Rhomboganoidei (n. pl.) Same as Ginglymodi.
Rhombogene (n.) A dicyemid which produces infusorialike embryos; -- opposed to nematogene. See Dicyemata.
Rhombohedral (a.) Related to the rhombohedron; presenting the form of a rhombohedron, or a form derivable from a rhombohedron; relating to a system of forms including the rhombohedron and scalenohedron.
Rhombohedric (a.) Rhombohedral.
Rhombohedron (n.) A solid contained by six rhomboids; a parallelopiped.
Rhomboid (n.) An oblique-angled parallelogram like a rhomb, but having only the opposite sides equal, the length and with being different.
Rhomboid (a.) Same as Rhomboidal.
Rhomboidal (a.) Having, or approaching, the shape of a rhomboid.
Rhomboides (n.) A rhomboid.
Rhomboid-ovate (a.) Between rhomboid and ovate, or oval, in shape.
Rhomb spar () A variety of dolomite.
Rhombus (n.) Same as Rhomb, 1.
Rhonchal (a.) Rhonchial.
Rhonchial (a.) Of or pertaining to a rhonchus; produced by rhonchi.
Rhonchisonant (a.) Making a snorting noise; snorting.
Rhonchi (pl. ) of Rhonchus
Rhonchus (n.) An adventitious whistling or snoring sound heard on auscultation of the chest when the air channels are partially obstructed. By some writers the term rhonchus is used as equivalent to rale in its widest sense. See Rale.
Rhopalic (a.) Applied to a line or verse in which each successive word has one more syllable than the preceding.
Rhopalia (pl. ) of Rhopalium
Rhopalium (n.) One of the marginal sensory bodies of medusae belonging to the Discophora.
Rhopalocera (n. pl.) A division of Lepidoptera including all the butterflies. They differ from other Lepidoptera in having club-shaped antennae.
Rhotacism (n.) An oversounding, or a misuse, of the letter r; specifically (Phylol.), the tendency, exhibited in the Indo-European languages, to change s to r, as wese to were.
Rhubarb (n.) The name of several large perennial herbs of the genus Rheum and order Polygonaceae.
Rhubarb (n.) The large and fleshy leafstalks of Rheum Rhaponticum and other species of the same genus. They are pleasantly acid, and are used in cookery. Called also pieplant.
Rhubarb (n.) The root of several species of Rheum, used much as a cathartic medicine.
Rhubarby (a.) Like rhubarb.
Rhumb (n.) A line which crosses successive meridians at a constant angle; -- called also rhumb line, and loxodromic curve. See Loxodromic.
Rhus (n.) A genus of shrubs and small treets. See Sumac.
Rhusma (n.) A mixtire of caustic lime and orpiment, or tersulphide of arsenic, -- used in the depilation of hides.
Rhyme (n.) An expression of thought in numbers, measure, or verse; a composition in verse; a rhymed tale; poetry; harmony of language.
Rhyme (n.) Correspondence of sound in the terminating words or syllables of two or more verses, one succeeding another immediately or at no great distance. The words or syllables so used must not begin with the same consonant, or if one begins with a vowel the other must begin with a consonant. The vowel sounds and accents must be the same, as also the sounds of the final consonants if there be any.
Rhyme (n.) Verses, usually two, having this correspondence with each other; a couplet; a poem containing rhymes.
Rhyme (n.) A word answering in sound to another word.
Rhymed (imp. & p. p.) of Rhyme
Rhyming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rhyme
Rhyme (n.) To make rhymes, or verses.
Rhyme (n.) To accord in rhyme or sound.
Rhyme (v. t.) To put into rhyme.
Rhyme (v. t.) To influence by rhyme.
Rhymeless (a.) Destitute of rhyme.
Rhymer (n.) One who makes rhymes; a versifier; -- generally in contempt; a poor poet; a poetaster.
Rhymery (n.) The art or habit of making rhymes; rhyming; -- in contempt.
Rhymester (n.) A rhymer; a maker of poor poetry.
Rhymic (a.) Pertaining to rhyme.
Rhymist (n.) A rhymer; a rhymester.
Rhynchobdellea (n. pl.) A suborder of leeches including those that have a protractile proboscis, without jaws. Clepsine is the type.
Rhynchocephala (n. pl.) An order of reptiles having biconcave vertebrae, immovable quadrate bones, and many other peculiar osteological characters. Hatteria is the only living genus, but numerous fossil genera are known, some of which are among the earliest of reptiles. See Hatteria. Called also Rhynchocephalia.
Rhynchocoela (n. pl.) Same as Nemertina.
Rhyncholite (n.) A fossil cephalopod beak.
Rhynchonella (n.) A genus of brachiopods of which some species are still living, while many are found fossil.
Rhynchophora (n. pl.) A group of Coleoptera having a snoutlike head; the snout beetles, curculios, or weevils.
Rhynchophore (n.) One of the Rhynchophora.
Rhynchota (n. pl.) Same as Hemiptera.
Rhyolite (n.) A quartzose trachyte, an igneous rock often showing a fluidal structure.
Rhyparography (n.) In ancient art, the painting of genre or still-life pictures.
Rhysimeter (n.) An instrument, acting on the principle of Pitot's tube, for measuring the velocity of a fluid current, the speed of a ship, etc.
Rhythm (n.) In the widest sense, a dividing into short portions by a regular succession of motions, impulses, sounds, accents, etc., producing an agreeable effect, as in music poetry, the dance, or the like.
Rhythm (n.) Movement in musical time, with periodical recurrence of accent; the measured beat or pulse which marks the character and expression of the music; symmetry of movement and accent.
Rhythm (n.) A division of lines into short portions by a regular succession of arses and theses, or percussions and remissions of voice on words or syllables.
Rhythm (n.) The harmonious flow of vocal sounds.
Rhythmer (n.) One who writes in rhythm, esp. in poetic rhythm or meter.
Rhythmic (a.) Alt. of Rhythmical
Rhythmical (a.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, rhythm
Rhythmically (adv.) In a rhythmical manner.
Rhythmics (n.) The department of musical science which treats of the length of sounds.
Rhythming (a.) Writing rhythm; verse making.
Rhythmless (a.) Being without rhythm.
Rhythmometer (n.) An instrument for marking time in musical movements. See Metronome.
Rhythmus (n.) Rhythm.
Rhytina (n.) See Rytina.
Rial (n.) A Spanish coin. See Real.
Rial (a.) Royal.
Rial (n.) A gold coin formerly current in England, of the value of ten shillings sterling in the reign of Henry VI., and of fifteen shillings in the reign of Elizabeth.
Riant (a.) Laughing; laughable; exciting gayety; gay; merry; delightful to the view, as a landscape.
Rib (n.) One of the curved bones attached to the vertebral column and supporting the lateral walls of the thorax.
Rib (n.) That which resembles a rib in form or use.
Rib (n.) One of the timbers, or bars of iron or steel, that branch outward and upward from the keel, to support the skin or planking, and give shape and strength to the vessel.
Rib (n.) A ridge, fin, or wing, as on a plate, cylinder, beam, etc., to strengthen or stiffen it.
Rib (n.) One of the rods on which the cover of an umbrella is extended.
Rib (n.) A prominent line or ridge, as in cloth.
Rib (n.) A longitudinal strip of metal uniting the barrels of a double-barreled gun.
Rib (n.) The chief nerve, or one of the chief nerves, of a leaf.
Rib (n.) Any longitudinal ridge in a plant.
Rib (n.) In Gothic vaulting, one of the primary members of the vault. These are strong arches, meeting and crossing one another, dividing the whole space into triangles, which are then filled by vaulted construction of lighter material. Hence, an imitation of one of these in wood, plaster, or the like.
Rib (n.) A projecting mold, or group of moldings, forming with others a pattern, as on a ceiling, ornamental door, or the like.
Rib (n.) Solid coal on the side of a gallery; solid ore in a vein.
Rib (n.) An elongated pillar of ore or coal left as a support.
Rib (n.) A wife; -- in allusion to Eve, as made out of Adam's rib.
Ribbed (imp. & p. p.) of Rib
Ribbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rib
Rib (v. t.) To furnish with ribs; to form with rising lines and channels; as, to rib cloth.
Rib (v. t.) To inclose, as with ribs, and protect; to shut in.
Ribald (n./) A low, vulgar, brutal, foul-mouthed wretch; a lewd fellow.
Ribald (a.) Low; base; mean; filthy; obscene.
Ribaldish (a.) Like a ribald.
Ribaldrous (a.) Of a ribald quality.
Ribaldry (n.) The talk of a ribald; low, vulgar language; indecency; obscenity; lewdness; -- now chiefly applied to indecent language, but formerly, as by Chaucer, also to indecent acts or conduct.
Riban (n.) See Ribbon.
Riband (n.) See Ribbon.
Riband (n.) See Rib-band.
Ribanded (a.) Ribboned.
Ribaud (n.) A ribald.
Ribaudequin (n.) An engine of war used in the Middle Ages, consisting of a protected elevated staging on wheels, and armed in front with pikes. It was (after the 14th century) furnished with small cannon.
Ribaudequin (n.) A huge bow fixed on the wall of a fortified town for casting javelins.
Ribaudred (a.) Alt. of Ribaudrous
Ribaudrous (a.) Filthy; obscene; ribald.
Ribaudry (n.) Ribaldry.
Ribaudy (n.) Ribaldry.
Ribauld (n.) A ribald.
Ribband (n.) A ribbon.
Ribband (n.) A long, narrow strip of timber bent and bolted longitudinally to the ribs of a vessel, to hold them in position, and give rigidity to the framework.
Ribbed (a.) Furnished or formed with ribs; as, a ribbed cylinder; ribbed cloth.
Ribbed (a.) Intercalated with slate; -- said of a seam of coal.
Ribbing (n.) An assemblage or arrangement of ribs, as the timberwork for the support of an arch or coved ceiling, the veins in the leaves of some plants, ridges in the fabric of cloth, or the like.
Ribbon (n.) A fillet or narrow woven fabric, commonly of silk, used for trimming some part of a woman's attire, for badges, and other decorative purposes.
Ribbon (n.) A narrow strip or shred; as, a steel or magnesium ribbon; sails torn to ribbons.
Ribbon (n.) Same as Rib-band.
Ribbon (n.) Driving reins.
Ribbon (n.) A bearing similar to the bend, but only one eighth as wide.
Ribbon (n.) A silver.
Ribboned (imp. & p. p.) of Ribbon
Ribboning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ribbon
Ribbon (v. t.) To adorn with, or as with, ribbons; to mark with stripes resembling ribbons.
Ribbonism (n.) The principles and practices of the Ribbonmen. See Ribbon Society, under Ribbon.
-men (pl. ) of Ribbonman
Ribbonman (n.) A member of the Ribbon Society. See Ribbon Society, under Ribbon.
Ribbonwood (n.) A malvaceous tree (Hoheria populnea) of New Zealand, the bark of which is used for cordage.
Ribes (n.) A genus of shrubs including gooseberries and currants of many kinds.
Ribibe (n.) A sort of stringed instrument; a rebec.
Ribibe (n.) An old woman; -- in contempt.
Ribibe (n.) A bawd; a prostitute.
Ribible (n.) A small threestringed viol; a rebec.
Ribless (a.) Having no ribs.
Ribroast (v. t.) To beat soundly.
Ribwort (n.) A species of plantain (Plantago lanceolata) with long, narrow, ribbed leaves; -- called also rib grass, ripple grass, ribwort plantain.
-ric () A suffix signifying dominion, jurisdiction; as, bishopric, the district over which a bishop exercises authority.
Rice (n.) A well-known cereal grass (Oryza sativa) and its seed. This plant is extensively cultivated in warm climates, and the grain forms a large portion of the food of the inhabitants. In America it grows chiefly on low, moist land, which can be overflowed.
Ricebird (n.) The Java sparrow.
Ricebird (n.) The bobolink.
Rice-shell (n.) Any one of numerous species of small white polished marine shells of the genus Olivella.
Rich (superl.) Having an abundance of material possessions; possessed of a large amount of property; well supplied with land, goods, or money; wealthy; opulent; affluent; -- opposed to poor.
Rich (superl.) Hence, in general, well supplied; abounding; abundant; copious; bountiful; as, a rich treasury; a rich entertainment; a rich crop.
Rich (superl.) Yielding large returns; productive or fertile; fruitful; as, rich soil or land; a rich mine.
Rich (superl.) Composed of valuable or costly materials or ingredients; procured at great outlay; highly valued; precious; sumptuous; costly; as, a rich dress; rich silk or fur; rich presents.
Rich (superl.) Abounding in agreeable or nutritive qualities; -- especially applied to articles of food or drink which are high-seasoned or abound in oleaginous ingredients, or are sweet, luscious, and high-flavored; as, a rich dish; rich cream or soup; rich pastry; rich wine or fruit.
Rich (superl.) Not faint or delicate; vivid; as, a rich color.
Rich (superl.) Full of sweet and harmonius sounds; as, a rich voice; rich music.
Rich (superl.) Abounding in beauty; gorgeous; as, a rich landscape; rich scenery.
Rich (superl.) Abounding in humor; exciting amusement; entertaining; as, the scene was a rich one; a rich incident or character.
Rich (v. t.) To enrich.
Riches (a.) That which makes one rich; an abundance of land, goods, money, or other property; wealth; opulence; affluence.
Riches (a.) That which appears rich, sumptuous, precious, or the like.
Richesse (n.) Wealth; riches. See the Note under Riches.
Richly (adv.) In a rich manner.
Richness (n.) The quality or state of being rich (in any sense of the adjective).
Richweed (n.) An herb (Pilea pumila) of the Nettle family, having a smooth, juicy, pellucid stem; -- called also clearweed.
Ricinelaidic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an isomeric modification of ricinoleic acid obtained as a white crystalline solid.
Ricinelaidin (n.) The glycerin salt of ricinelaidic acid, obtained as a white crystalline waxy substance by treating castor oil with nitrous acid.
Ricinic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, castor oil; formerly, designating an acid now called ricinoleic acid.
Ricinine (n.) A bitter white crystalline alkaloid extracted from the seeds of the castor-oil plant.
Ricinoleate (n.) A salt of ricinoleic acid; -- formerly called palmate.
Ricinoleic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a fatty acid analogous to oleic acid, obtained from castor oil as an oily substance, C/H/O/ with a harsh taste. Formerly written ricinolic.
Ricinolein (n.) The glycerin salt of ricinoleic acid, occuring as a characteristic constituent of castor oil; -- formerly called palmin.
Ricinolic (a.) Ricinoleic.
Ricinus (n.) A genus of plants of the Spurge family, containing but one species (R. communis), the castor-oil plant. The fruit is three-celled, and contains three large seeds from which castor oil iss expressed. See Palma Christi.
Rick (n.) A stack or pile, as of grain, straw, or hay, in the open air, usually protected from wet with thatching.
Rick (v. t.) To heap up in ricks, as hay, etc.
Ricker (n.) A stout pole for use in making a rick, or for a spar to a boat.
Ricketish (a.) Rickety.
Rickets (n. pl.) A disease which affects children, and which is characterized by a bulky head, crooked spine and limbs, depressed ribs, enlarged and spongy articular epiphyses, tumid abdomen, and short stature, together with clear and often premature mental faculties. The essential cause of the disease appears to be the nondeposition of earthy salts in the osteoid tissues. Children afflicted with this malady stand and walk unsteadily. Called also rachitis.
Rickety (a.) Affected with rickets.
Rickety (a.) Feeble in the joints; imperfect; weak; shaky.
Rickrack (n.) A kind of openwork edging made of serpentine braid.
Rickstand (n.) A flooring or framework on which a rick is made.
Ricochet (n.) A rebound or skipping, as of a ball along the ground when a gun is fired at a low angle of elevation, or of a fiat stone thrown along the surface of water.
Ricochetted (imp. & p. p.) of Ricochet
Ricochetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ricochet
Ricochet (v. t.) To operate upon by ricochet firing. See Ricochet, n.
Ricochet (v. i.) To skip with a rebound or rebounds, as a flat stone on the surface of water, or a cannon ball on the ground. See Ricochet, n.
Rictal (a.) Of or pertaining to the rictus; as, rictal bristles.
Ricture (n.) A gaping.
Rictus (n.) The gape of the mouth, as of birds; -- often resricted to the corners of the mouth.
Rid () imp. & p. p. of Ride, v. i.
Rid (imp. & p. p.) of Rid
Ridded () of Rid
Ridding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rid
Rid (v. t.) To save; to rescue; to deliver; -- with out of.
Rid (v. t.) To free; to clear; to disencumber; -- followed by of.
Rid (v. t.) To drive away; to remove by effort or violence; to make away with; to destroy.
Rid (v. t.) To get over; to dispose of; to dispatch; to finish.
Ridable (a.) Suitable for riding; as, a ridable horse; a ridable road.
Riddance (n.) The act of ridding or freeing; deliverance; a cleaning up or out.
Riddance (n.) The state of being rid or free; freedom; escape.
Ridden () p. p. of Ride.
Ridder (n.) One who, or that which, rids.
Riddle (n.) A sieve with coarse meshes, usually of wire, for separating coarser materials from finer, as chaff from grain, cinders from ashes, or gravel from sand.
Riddle (n.) A board having a row of pins, set zigzag, between which wire is drawn to straighten it.
Riddled (imp. & p. p.) of Riddle
Riddling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Riddle
Riddle (v. t.) To separate, as grain from the chaff, with a riddle; to pass through a riddle; as, riddle wheat; to riddle coal or gravel.
Riddle (v. t.) To perforate so as to make like a riddle; to make many holes in; as, a house riddled with shot.
Riddle (n.) Something proposed to be solved by guessing or conjecture; a puzzling question; an ambiguous proposition; an enigma; hence, anything ambiguous or puzzling.
Riddle (v. t.) To explain; to solve; to unriddle.
Riddle (v. i.) To speak ambiguously or enigmatically.
Riddler (n.) One who riddles (grain, sand, etc.).
Riddler (n.) One who speaks in, or propounds, riddles.
Riddling (a.) Speaking in a riddle or riddles; containing a riddle.
Rode (imp.) of Ride
Rid () of Ride
Ridden (p. p.) of Ride
Rid () of Ride
Riding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ride
Ride (v. i.) To be carried on the back of an animal, as a horse.
Ride (v. i.) To be borne in a carriage; as, to ride in a coach, in a car, and the like. See Synonym, below.
Ride (v. i.) To be borne or in a fluid; to float; to lie.
Ride (v. i.) To be supported in motion; to rest.
Ride (v. i.) To manage a horse, as an equestrian.
Ride (v. i.) To support a rider, as a horse; to move under the saddle; as, a horse rides easy or hard, slow or fast.
Ride (v. t.) To sit on, so as to be carried; as, to ride a horse; to ride a bicycle.
Ride (v. t.) To manage insolently at will; to domineer over.
Ride (v. t.) To convey, as by riding; to make or do by riding.
Ride (v. t.) To overlap (each other); -- said of bones or fractured fragments.
Ride (n.) The act of riding; an excursion on horseback or in a vehicle.
Ride (n.) A saddle horse.
Ride (n.) A road or avenue cut in a wood, or through grounds, to be used as a place for riding; a riding.
Rideau (n.) A small mound of earth; ground slightly elevated; a small ridge.
Riden () imp. pl. & p. p. of Ride.
Rident (a.) Laughing.
Rider (n.) One who, or that which, rides.
Rider (n.) Formerly, an agent who went out with samples of goods to obtain orders; a commercial traveler.
Rider (n.) One who breaks or manages a horse.
Rider (n.) An addition or amendment to a manuscript or other document, which is attached on a separate piece of paper; in legislative practice, an additional clause annexed to a bill while in course of passage; something extra or burdensome that is imposed.
Rider (n.) A problem of more than usual difficulty added to another on an examination paper.
Rider (n.) A Dutch gold coin having the figure of a man on horseback stamped upon it.
Rider (n.) Rock material in a vein of ore, dividing it.
Rider (n.) An interior rib occasionally fixed in a ship's hold, reaching from the keelson to the beams of the lower deck, to strengthen her frame.
Rider (n.) The second tier of casks in a vessel's hold.
Rider (n.) A small forked weight which straddles the beam of a balance, along which it can be moved in the manner of the weight on a steelyard.
Rider (n.) A robber.
Riderless (a.) Having no rider; as, a riderless horse.
Ridge (n.) The back, or top of the back; a crest.
Ridge (n.) A range of hills or mountains, or the upper part of such a range; any extended elevation between valleys.
Ridge (n.) A raised line or strip, as of ground thrown up by a plow or left between furrows or ditches, or as on the surface of metal, cloth, or bone, etc.
Ridge (n.) The intersection of two surface forming a salient angle, especially the angle at the top between the opposite slopes or sides of a roof or a vault.
Ridge (n.) The highest portion of the glacis proceeding from the salient angle of the covered way.
Ridged (imp. & p. p.) of Ridge
Ridging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ridge
Ridge (v. t.) To form a ridge of; to furnish with a ridge or ridges; to make into a ridge or ridges.
Ridge (v. t.) To form into ridges with the plow, as land.
Ridge (v. t.) To wrinkle.
Ridgeband (n.) The part of a harness which passes over the saddle, and supports the shafts of a cart; -- called also ridgerope, and ridger.
Ridgebone (n.) The backbone.
Ridgel (n.) Same as Ridgelling.
Ridgelet (n.) A little ridge.
Ridgeling (n.) A half-castrated male animal.
Ridgepiece (n.) Alt. of Ridgeplate
Ridgeplate (n.) See Ridgepole.
Ridgepole (n.) The timber forming the ridge of a roof, into which the rafters are secured.
Ridgerope (n.) See Life line (a), under Life.
Ridgingly (adv.) So as to form ridges.
Ridgy (a.) Having a ridge or ridges; rising in a ridge.
Ridicle (n.) Ridicule.
Ridicule (n.) An object of sport or laughter; a laughingstock; a laughing matter.
Ridicule (n.) Remarks concerning a subject or a person designed to excite laughter with a degree of contempt; wit of that species which provokes contemptuous laughter; disparagement by making a person an object of laughter; banter; -- a term lighter than derision.
Ridicule (n.) Quality of being ridiculous; ridiculousness.
Ridiculed (imp. & p. p.) of Ridicule
Ridiculing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ridicule
Ridicule (v. t.) To laugh at mockingly or disparagingly; to awaken ridicule toward or respecting.
Ridicule (a.) Ridiculous.
Ridiculer (n.) One who ridicules.
Ridiculize (v. t.) To make ridiculous; to ridicule.
Ridiculosity (n.) The quality or state of being ridiculous; ridiculousness; also, something ridiculous.
Ridiculous (a.) Fitted to excite ridicule; absurd and laughable; unworthy of serious consideration; as, a ridiculous dress or behavior.
Ridiculous (a.) Involving or expressing ridicule.
Riding (n.) One of the three jurisdictions into which the county of York, in England, is divided; -- formerly under the government of a reeve. They are called the North, the East, and the West, Riding.
Riding (a.) Employed to travel; traveling; as, a riding clerk.
Riding (a.) Used for riding on; as, a riding horse.
Riding (a.) Used for riding, or when riding; devoted to riding; as, a riding whip; a riding habit; a riding day.
Riding (n.) The act or state of one who rides.
Riding (n.) A festival procession.
Riding (n.) Same as Ride, n., 3.
Riding (n.) A district in charge of an excise officer.
Ridotto (n.) A favorite Italian public entertainment, consisting of music and dancing, -- held generally on fast eves.
Ridotto (v. i.) To hold ridottos.
Rie (n.) See Rye.
Rief (n.) Robbery.
Rietboc (n.) The reedbuck, a South African antelope (Cervicapra arundinacea); -- so called from its frequenting dry places covered with high grass or reeds. Its color is yellowish brown. Called also inghalla, and rietbok.
Rife (a.) Prevailing; prevalent; abounding.
Rife (a.) Having power; active; nimble.
Riffle (n.) A trough or sluice having cleats, grooves, or steps across the bottom for holding quicksilver and catching particles of gold when auriferous earth is washed; also, one of the cleats, grooves, or steps in such a trough. Also called ripple.
Riffler (n.) A curved file used in carving wool and marble.
Riffraff (n.) Sweepings; refuse; the lowest order of society.
Rifled (imp. & p. p.) of Rifle
Rifling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rifle
Rifle (v. t.) To seize and bear away by force; to snatch away; to carry off.
Rifle (v. t.) To strip; to rob; to pillage.
Rifle (v. t.) To raffle.
Rifle (v. i.) To raffle.
Rifle (v. i.) To commit robbery.
Rifle (n.) A gun, the inside of whose barrel is grooved with spiral channels, thus giving the ball a rotary motion and insuring greater accuracy of fire. As a military firearm it has superseded the musket.
Rifle (n.) A body of soldiers armed with rifles.
Rifle (n.) A strip of wood covered with emery or a similar material, used for sharpening scythes.
Rifle (v. t.) To grove; to channel; especially, to groove internally with spiral channels; as, to rifle a gun barrel or a cannon.
Rifle (v. t.) To whet with a rifle. See Rifle, n., 3.
Riflebird (n.) Any one of several species of beautiful birds of Australia and New Guinea, of the genera Ptiloris and Craspidophora, allied to the paradise birds.
Rifleman (pl. ) of Rifleman
Rifleman (n.) A soldier armed with a rifle.
Rifler (n.) One who rifles; a robber.
Rifling (n.) The act or process of making the grooves in a rifled cannon or gun barrel.
Rifling (n.) The system of grooves in a rifled gun barrel or cannon.
Rift () p. p. of Rive.
Rift (n.) An opening made by riving or splitting; a cleft; a fissure.
Rift (n.) A shallow place in a stream; a ford.
Rifted (imp. & p. p.) of Rift
Rifting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rift
Rift (v. t.) To cleave; to rive; to split; as, to rift an oak or a rock; to rift the clouds.
Rift (v. i.) To burst open; to split.
Rift (v. i.) To belch.
Rifter (n.) A rafter.
Rig (n.) A ridge.
Rigged (imp. & p. p.) of Rig
Rigging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rig
Rig (v. t.) To furnish with apparatus or gear; to fit with tackling.
Rig (v. t.) To dress; to equip; to clothe, especially in an odd or fanciful manner; -- commonly followed by out.
Rig (n.) The peculiar fitting in shape, number, and arrangement of sails and masts, by which different types of vessels are distinguished; as, schooner rig, ship rig, etc. See Illustration in Appendix.
Rig (n.) Dress; esp., odd or fanciful clothing.
Rig (n.) A romp; a wanton; one given to unbecoming conduct.
Rig (n.) A sportive or unbecoming trick; a frolic.
Rig (n.) A blast of wind.
Rig (v. i.) To play the wanton; to act in an unbecoming manner; to play tricks.
Rig (v. t.) To make free with; hence, to steal; to pilfer.
Rigadoon (n.) A gay, lively dance for one couple, -- said to have been borrowed from Provence in France.
Riga fir () A species of pine (Pinus sylvestris), and its wood, which affords a valuable timber; -- called also Scotch pine, and red / yellow deal. It grows in all parts of Europe, in the Caucasus, and in Siberia.
Rigarion (n.) See Irrigation.
Rigel (n.) A fixed star of the first magnitude in the left foot of the constellation Orion.
Rigescent (a.) Growing stiff or numb.
Rigger (n.) One who rigs or dresses; one whose occupation is to fit the rigging of a ship.
Rigger (n.) A cylindrical pulley or drum in machinery.
Rigging (n.) DRess; tackle; especially (Naut.), the ropes, chains, etc., that support the masts and spars of a vessel, and serve as purchases for adjusting the sails, etc. See Illustr. of Ship and Sails.
Riggish (a.) Like a rig or wanton.
Riggle (v. i.) See Wriggle.
Riggle (n.) The European lance fish.
Right (a.) Straight; direct; not crooked; as, a right line.
Right (a.) Upright; erect from a base; having an upright axis; not oblique; as, right ascension; a right pyramid or cone.
Right (a.) Conformed to the constitution of man and the will of God, or to justice and equity; not deviating from the true and just; according with truth and duty; just; true.
Right (a.) Fit; suitable; proper; correct; becoming; as, the right man in the right place; the right way from London to Oxford.
Right (a.) Characterized by reality or genuineness; real; actual; not spurious.
Right (a.) According with truth; passing a true judgment; conforming to fact or intent; not mistaken or wrong; not erroneous; correct; as, this is the right faith.
Right (a.) Most favorable or convenient; fortunate.
Right (a.) Of or pertaining to that side of the body in man on which the muscular action is usually stronger than on the other side; -- opposed to left when used in reference to a part of the body; as, the right side, hand, arm. Also applied to the corresponding side of the lower animals.
Right (a.) Well placed, disposed, or adjusted; orderly; well regulated; correctly done.
Right (a.) Designed to be placed or worn outward; as, the right side of a piece of cloth.
Right (adv.) In a right manner.
Right (adv.) In a right or straight line; directly; hence; straightway; immediately; next; as, he stood right before me; it went right to the mark; he came right out; he followed right after the guide.
Right (adv.) Exactly; just.
Right (adv.) According to the law or will of God; conforming to the standard of truth and justice; righteously; as, to live right; to judge right.
Right (adv.) According to any rule of art; correctly.
Right (adv.) According to fact or truth; actually; truly; really; correctly; exactly; as, to tell a story right.
Right (adv.) In a great degree; very; wholly; unqualifiedly; extremely; highly; as, right humble; right noble; right valiant.
Right (a.) That which is right or correct.
Right (a.) The straight course; adherence to duty; obedience to lawful authority, divine or human; freedom from guilt, -- the opposite of moral wrong.
Right (a.) A true statement; freedom from error of falsehood; adherence to truth or fact.
Right (a.) A just judgment or action; that which is true or proper; justice; uprightness; integrity.
Right (a.) That to which one has a just claim.
Right (a.) That which one has a natural claim to exact.
Right (a.) That which one has a legal or social claim to do or to exact; legal power; authority; as, a sheriff has a right to arrest a criminal.
Right (a.) That which justly belongs to one; that which one has a claim to possess or own; the interest or share which anyone has in a piece of property; title; claim; interest; ownership.
Right (a.) Privilege or immunity granted by authority.
Right (a.) The right side; the side opposite to the left.
Right (a.) In some legislative bodies of Europe (as in France), those members collectively who are conservatives or monarchists. See Center, 5.
Right (a.) The outward or most finished surface, as of a piece of cloth, a carpet, etc.
Righted (imp. & p. p.) of Right
Righting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Right
Right (a.) To bring or restore to the proper or natural position; to set upright; to make right or straight (that which has been wrong or crooked); to correct.
Right (a.) To do justice to; to relieve from wrong; to restore rights to; to assert or regain the rights of; as, to right the oppressed; to right one's self; also, to vindicate.
Right (v. i.) To recover the proper or natural condition or position; to become upright.
Right (v. i.) Hence, to regain an upright position, as a ship or boat, after careening.
Right-about (n.) A turning directly about by the right, so as to face in the opposite direction; also, the quarter directly opposite; as, to turn to the right-about.
Right-angled (a.) Containing a right angle or right angles; as, a right-angled triangle.
Righten (v. t.) To do justice to.
Righteous (a.) Doing, or according with, that which is right; yielding to all their due; just; equitable; especially, free from wrong, guilt, or sin; holy; as, a righteous man or act; a righteous retribution.
Righteoused (a.) Made righteous.
Righteously (adv.) In a righteous manner; as, to judge righteously.
Righteousness (n.) The quality or state of being righteous; holiness; purity; uprightness; rectitude.
Righteousness (n.) A righteous act, or righteous quality.
Righteousness (n.) The act or conduct of one who is righteous.
Righteousness (n.) The state of being right with God; justification; the work of Christ, which is the ground of justification.
Righter (n.) One who sets right; one who does justice or redresses wrong.
Rightful (a.) Righteous; upright; just; good; -- said of persons.
Rightful (a.) Consonant to justice; just; as, a rightful cause.
Rightful (a.) Having the right or just claim according to established laws; being or holding by right; as, the rightful heir to a throne or an estate; a rightful king.
Rightful (a.) Belonging, held, or possessed by right, or by just claim; as, a rightful inheritance; rightful authority.
Rightfully (adv.) According to right or justice.
Rightfulness (n.) The quality or state of being rightful; accordance with right and justice.
Rightfulness (n.) Moral rectitude; righteousness.
Right-hand (a.) Situated or being on the right; nearer the right hand than the left; as, the right-hand side, room, or road.
Right-hand (a.) Chiefly relied on; almost indispensable.
Right-handed (a.) Using the right hand habitually, or more easily than the left.
Right-handed (a.) Having the same direction or course as the movement of the hands of a watch seen in front; -- said of the motion of a revolving object looked at from a given direction.
Right-handed (a.) Having the whorls rising from left to right; dextral; -- said of spiral shells. See Illust. of Scalaria.
Right-handedness (n.) The state or quality of being right-handed; hence, skill; dexterity.
Right-hearted (a.) Having a right heart or disposition.
Rightless (a.) Destitute of right.
Right-lined (a.) Formed by right lines; rectilineal; as, a right-lined angle.
Rightly (adv.) Straightly; directly; in front.
Rightly (adv.) According to justice; according to the divine will or moral rectitude; uprightly; as, duty rightly performed.
Rightly (adv.) Properly; fitly; suitably; appropriately.
Rightly (adv.) According to truth or fact; correctly; not erroneously; exactly.
Right-minded (a.) Having a right or honest mind.
Rightness (n.) Straightness; as, the rightness of a line.
Rightness (n.) The quality or state of being right; right relation.
Right-running (a.) Straight; direct.
Rightward (adv.) Toward the right.
Right whale () The bowhead, Arctic, or Greenland whale (Balaena mysticetus), from whose mouth the best whalebone is obtained.
Right whale () Any other whale that produces valuable whalebone, as the Atlantic, or Biscay, right whale (Balaena cisarctica), and the Pacific right whale (B. Sieboldii); a bone whale.
Rightwise (a.) Righteous.
Rightwise (v. t.) To make righteous.
Rightwisely (adv.) Righteously.
Rightwiseness (n.) Righteousness.
Rigid (a.) Firm; stiff; unyielding; not pliant; not flexible.
Rigid (a.) Hence, not lax or indulgent; severe; inflexible; strict; as, a rigid father or master; rigid discipline; rigid criticism; a rigid sentence.
Rigidity (n.) The quality or state of being rigid; want of pliability; the quality of resisting change of form; the amount of resistance with which a body opposes change of form; -- opposed to flexibility, ductility, malleability, and softness.
Rigidity (n.) Stiffness of appearance or manner; want of ease or elegance.
Rigidity (n.) Severity; rigor.
Rigidly (v.) In a rigid manner; stiffly.
Rigidness (n.) The quality or state of being rigid.
Rigidulous (a.) Somewhat rigid or stiff; as, a rigidulous bristle.
Riglet (n.) See Reglet.
Rigmarole (n.) A succession of confused or nonsensical statements; foolish talk; nonsense.
Rigmarole (a.) Consisting of rigmarole; frovolous; nonsensical; foolish.
Rigol (n.) A circle; hence, a diadem.
Rigoll (n.) A musical instrument formerly in use, consisting of several sticks bound together, but separated by beads, and played with a stick with a ball at its end.
Rigor (n.) Rigidity; stiffness.
Rigor (n.) A sense of chilliness, with contraction of the skin; a convulsive shuddering or tremor, as in the chill preceding a fever.
Rigor (n.) The becoming stiff or rigid; the state of being rigid; rigidity; stiffness; hardness.
Rigor (n.) See 1st Rigor, 2.
Rigor (n.) Severity of climate or season; inclemency; as, the rigor of the storm; the rigors of winter.
Rigor (n.) Stiffness of opinion or temper; rugged sternness; hardness; relentless severity; hard-heartedness; cruelty.
Rigor (n.) Exactness without allowance, deviation, or indulgence; strictness; as, the rigor of criticism; to execute a law with rigor; to enforce moral duties with rigor; -- opposed to lenity.
Rigor (n.) Severity of life; austerity; voluntary submission to pain, abstinence, or mortification.
Rigor (n.) Violence; force; fury.
Rigorism (n.) Rigidity in principle or practice; strictness; -- opposed to laxity.
Rigorism (n.) Severity, as of style, or the like.
Rigorist (n.) One who is rigorous; -- sometimes applied to an extreme Jansenist.
Rigorous (a.) Manifesting, exercising, or favoring rigor; allowing no abatement or mitigation; scrupulously accurate; exact; strict; severe; relentless; as, a rigorous officer of justice; a rigorous execution of law; a rigorous definition or demonstration.
Rigorous (a.) Severe; intense; inclement; as, a rigorous winter.
Rigorous (a.) Violent.
Rigsdaler (n.) A Danish coin worth about fifty-four cents. It was the former unit of value in Denmark.
Rig-Veda () See Veda.
Riksdaler (n.) A Swedish coin worth about twenty-seven cents. It was formerly the unit of value in Sweden.
Riled (imp. & p. p.) of Rile
Riling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rile
Rile (v. t.) To render turbid or muddy; to stir up; to roil.
Rile (v. t.) To stir up in feelings; to make angry; to vex.
Rilievo (n.) Same as Relief, n., 5.
Rill (n.) A very small brook; a streamlet.
Rill (n.) See Rille.
Rill (v. i.) To run a small stream.
Rille (n.) One of certain narrow, crooked valleys seen, by aid of the telescope, on the surface of the moon.
Rillet (n.) A little rill.
Rily (a.) Roily.
Rim (n.) The border, edge, or margin of a thing, usually of something circular or curving; as, the rim of a kettle or basin.
Rim (n.) The lower part of the abdomen.
Rimmed (imp. & p. p.) of Rim
Rimming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rim
Rim (v. t.) To furnish with a rim; to border.
Rimae (pl. ) of Rima
Rima (n.) A narrow and elongated aperture; a cleft; a fissure.
Rimau dahan () The clouded tiger cat (Felis marmorata) of Southern Asia and the East Indies.
Rimbase (n.) A short cylinder connecting a trunnion with the body of a cannon. See Illust. of Cannon.
Rime (n.) A rent or long aperture; a chink; a fissure; a crack.
Rime (n.) White frost; hoarfrost; congealed dew or vapor.
Rimed (imp. & p. p.) of Rime
Riming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rime
Rime (v. i.) To freeze or congeal into hoarfrost.
Rime (n.) A step or round of a ladder; a rung.
Rime (n.) Rhyme. See Rhyme.
Rime (v. i. & t.) To rhyme. See Rhyme.
Rimer (n.) A rhymer; a versifier.
Rimer (n.) A tool for shaping the rimes of a ladder.
Rimey (v. t.) To compose in rhyme; to versify.
Rimmer (n.) An implement for cutting, trimming, or ornamenting the rim of anything, as the edges of pies, etc.; also, a reamer.
Rimose (a.) Full of rimes, fissures, or chinks.
Rimose (a.) Having long and nearly parallel clefts or chinks, like those in the bark of trees.
Rimosely (adv.) In a rimose manner.
Rimosity (n.) State of being rimose.
Rimous (a.) Rimose.
Rimple (n.) A fold or wrinkle. See Rumple.
Rimpled (imp. & p. p.) of Rimple
Rimpling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rimple
Rimple (v. t. & i.) To rumple; to wrinkle.
Rimy (a.) Abounding with rime; frosty.
Rind (n.) The external covering or coat, as of flesh, fruit, trees, etc.; skin; hide; bark; peel; shell.
Rind (v. t.) To remove the rind of; to bark.
Rinderpest (n.) A highly contagious distemper or murrain, affecting neat cattle, and less commonly sheep and goats; -- called also cattle plague, Russian cattle plague, and steppe murrain.
Rindle (n.) A small water course or gutter.
Rindless (a.) Destitute of a rind.
Rindy (a.) Having a rind or skin.
Rine (n.) See Rind.
Rined (a.) Having a rind
Rinforzando (a.) Increasing; strengthening; -- a direction indicating a sudden increase of force (abbreviated rf., rfz.) Cf. Forzando, and Sforzando.
Rang (imp.) of Ring
Rung () of Ring
Rung (p. p.) of Ring
Ringing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ring
Ring (v. t.) To cause to sound, especially by striking, as a metallic body; as, to ring a bell.
Ring (v. t.) To make (a sound), as by ringing a bell; to sound.
Ring (v. t.) To repeat often, loudly, or earnestly.
Ring (v. i.) To sound, as a bell or other sonorous body, particularly a metallic one.
Ring (v. i.) To practice making music with bells.
Ring (v. i.) To sound loud; to resound; to be filled with a ringing or reverberating sound.
Ring (v. i.) To continue to sound or vibrate; to resound.
Ring (v. i.) To be filled with report or talk; as, the whole town rings with his fame.
Ring (n.) A sound; especially, the sound of vibrating metals; as, the ring of a bell.
Ring (n.) Any loud sound; the sound of numerous voices; a sound continued, repeated, or reverberated.
Ring (n.) A chime, or set of bells harmonically tuned.
Ring (n.) A circle, or a circular line, or anything in the form of a circular line or hoop.
Ring (n.) Specifically, a circular ornament of gold or other precious material worn on the finger, or attached to the ear, the nose, or some other part of the person; as, a wedding ring.
Ring (n.) A circular area in which races are or run or other sports are performed; an arena.
Ring (n.) An inclosed space in which pugilists fight; hence, figuratively, prize fighting.
Ring (n.) A circular group of persons.
Ring (n.) The plane figure included between the circumferences of two concentric circles.
Ring (n.) The solid generated by the revolution of a circle, or other figure, about an exterior straight line (as an axis) lying in the same plane as the circle or other figure.
Ring (n.) An instrument, formerly used for taking the sun's altitude, consisting of a brass ring suspended by a swivel, with a hole at one side through which a solar ray entering indicated the altitude on the graduated inner surface opposite.
Ring (n.) An elastic band partly or wholly encircling the spore cases of ferns. See Illust. of Sporangium.
Ring (n.) A clique; an exclusive combination of persons for a selfish purpose, as to control the market, distribute offices, obtain contracts, etc.
Ringed (imp. & p. p.) of Ring
Ringing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ring
Ring (v. t.) To surround with a ring, or as with a ring; to encircle.
Ring (v. t.) To make a ring around by cutting away the bark; to girdle; as, to ring branches or roots.
Ring (v. t.) To fit with a ring or with rings, as the fingers, or a swine's snout.
Ring (v. i.) To rise in the air spirally.
Ringbill (n.) The ring-necked scaup duck; -- called also ring-billed blackhead. See Scaup.
Ringbird (n.) The reed bunting. It has a collar of white feathers. Called also ring bunting.
Ringbolt (n.) An eyebolt having a ring through the eye.
Ringbone (n.) A morbid growth or deposit of bony matter between or on the small pastern and the great pastern bones.
Ringdove (n.) A European wild pigeon (Columba palumbus) having a white crescent on each side of the neck, whence the name. Called also wood pigeon, and cushat.
Ringed (a.) Encircled or marked with, or as with, a ring or rings.
Ringed (a.) Wearning a wedding ring; hence, lawfully wedded.
Ringent (a.) Having the lips widely separated and gaping like an open mouth; as a ringent bilabiate corolla.
Ringer (n.) One who, or that which, rings; especially, one who rings chimes on bells.
Ringer (n.) A crowbar.
Ringer (n.) A horse that is not entitled to take part in a race, but is fraudulently got into it.
Ringhead (n.) An instrument used for stretching woolen cloth.
Ringing () a & n. from Ring, v.
Ringingly (adv.) In a ringing manner.
Ringleader (n.) The leader of a circle of dancers; hence, the leader of a number of persons acting together; the leader of a herd of animals.
Ringleader (n.) Opprobriously, a leader of a body of men engaged in the violation of law or in an illegal enterprise, as rioters, mutineers, or the like.
Ringlestone (n.) The ringed dotterel, or ring plover.
Ringlet (n.) A small ring; a small circle; specifically, a fairy ring.
Ringlet (n.) A curl; especially, a curl of hair.
Ringmen (pl. ) of Ringman
Ringman (n.) The ring finger.
Ringmaster (n.) One in charge of the performances (as of horses) within the ring in a circus.
Ringneck (n.) Any one of several species of small plovers of the genus Aegialitis, having a ring around the neck. The ring is black in summer, but becomes brown or gray in winter. The semipalmated plover (Ae. semipalmata) and the piping plover (Ae. meloda) are common North American species. Called also ring plover, and ring-necked plover.
Ringneck (n.) The ring-necked duck.
Ring-necked (a.) Having a well defined ring of color around the neck.
Ringsail (n.) See Ringtail, 2.
Ringstraked (a.) Ring-streaked.
Ring-streaked (a.) Having circular streaks or lines on the body; as, ring-streaked goats.
Ringtail (n.) A bird having a distinct band of color across the tail, as the hen harrier.
Ringtail (n.) A light sail set abaft and beyong the leech of a boom-and-gaff sail; -- called also ringsail.
Ring-tailed (a.) Having the tail crossed by conspicuous bands of color.
Ringtoss (n.) A game in which the object is to toss a ring so that it will catch upon an upright stick.
Ringworm (n.) A contagious affection of the skin due to the presence of a vegetable parasite, and forming ring-shaped discolored patches covered with vesicles or powdery scales. It occurs either on the body, the face, or the scalp. Different varieties are distinguished as Tinea circinata, Tinea tonsurans, etc., but all are caused by the same parasite (a species of Trichophyton).
Rink (n.) The smooth and level extent of ice marked off for the game of curling.
Rink (n.) An artificial sheet of ice, generally under cover, used for skating; also, a floor prepared for skating on with roller skates, or a building with such a floor.
Rinker (n.) One who skates at a rink.
Rinking (n.) Skating in a rink.
Rinsed (imp. & p. p.) of Rinse
Rinsing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rinse
Rinse (v. t.) To wash lightly; to cleanse with a second or repeated application of water after washing.
Rinse (v. t.) To cleancse by the introduction of water; -- applied especially to hollow vessels; as, to rinse a bottle.
Rinse (n.) The act of rinsing.
Rinser (n.) One who, or that which, rinses.
Riot (n.) Wanton or unrestrained behavior; uproar; tumult.
Riot (n.) Excessive and exxpensive feasting; wild and loose festivity; revelry.
Riot (n.) The tumultuous disturbance of the public peace by an unlawful assembly of three or more persons in the execution of some private object.
Rioted (imp. & p. p.) of Riot
Rioting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Riot
Riot (v. i.) To engage in riot; to act in an unrestrained or wanton manner; to indulge in excess of luxury, feasting, or the like; to revel; to run riot; to go to excess.
Riot (v. i.) To disturb the peace; to raise an uproar or sedition. See Riot, n., 3.
Riot (v. t.) To spend or pass in riot.
Rioter (n.) One who riots; a reveler; a roisterer.
Rioter (n.) One who engages in a riot. See Riot, n., 3.
Riotise (n.) Excess; tumult; revelry.
Riotour (n.) A rioter.
Riotous (a.) Involving, or engaging in, riot; wanton; unrestrained; luxurious.
Riotous (a.) Partaking of the nature of an unlawful assembly or its acts; seditious.
Riotry (n.) The act or practice of rioting; riot.
Rip (n.) A wicker fish basket.
Ripped (imp. & p. p.) of Rip
Ripping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rip
Rip (v. t.) To divide or separate the parts of, by cutting or tearing; to tear or cut open or off; to tear off or out by violence; as, to rip a garment by cutting the stitches; to rip off the skin of a beast; to rip up a floor; -- commonly used with up, open, off.
Rip (v. t.) To get by, or as by, cutting or tearing.
Rip (v. t.) To tear up for search or disclosure, or for alteration; to search to the bottom; to discover; to disclose; -- usually with up.
Rip (v. t.) To saw (wood) lengthwise of the grain or fiber.
Rip (n.) A rent made by ripping, esp. by a seam giving way; a tear; a place torn; laceration.
Rip (n.) A term applied to a mean, worthless thing or person, as to a scamp, a debauchee, or a prostitute, or a worn-out horse.
Rip (n.) A body of water made rough by the meeting of opposing tides or currents.
Riparian (a.) Of or pertaining to the bank of a river; as, riparian rights.
Riparious (a.) Growing along the banks of rivers; riparian.
Ripe (n.) The bank of a river.
Ripe (superl.) Ready for reaping or gathering; having attained perfection; mature; -- said of fruits, seeds, etc.; as, ripe grain.
Ripe (superl.) Advanced to the state of fitness for use; mellow; as, ripe cheese; ripe wine.
Ripe (superl.) Having attained its full development; mature; perfected; consummate.
Ripe (superl.) Maturated or suppurated; ready to discharge; -- said of sores, tumors, etc.
Ripe (superl.) Ready for action or effect; prepared.
Ripe (superl.) Like ripened fruit in ruddiness and plumpness.
Ripe (superl.) Intoxicated.
Ripe (v. i.) To ripen; to grow ripe.
Ripe (v. t.) To mature; to ripen.
Ripely (adv.) Maturely; at the fit time.
Ripened (imp. & p. p.) of Ripen
Ripening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ripen
Ripen (v. i.) To grow ripe; to become mature, as grain, fruit, flowers, and the like; as, grapes ripen in the sun.
Ripen (v. i.) To approach or come to perfection.
Ripen (v. t.) To cause to mature; to make ripe; as, the warm days ripened the corn.
Ripen (v. t.) To mature; to fit or prepare; to bring to perfection; as, to ripen the judgment.
Ripeness (n.) The state or quality of being ripe; maturity;; completeness; perfection; as, the ripeness of grain; ripeness of manhood; ripeness of judgment.
Ripidolite (n.) A translucent mineral of a green color and micaceous structure, belonging to the chlorite group; a hydrous silicate of alumina, magnesia, and iron; -- called also clinochlore.
Ripienist (n.) A player in the ripieno portion of an orchestra. See Ripieno.
Ripieno (a.) Filling up; supplementary; supernumerary; -- a term applied to those instruments which only swell the mass or tutti of an orchestra, but are not obbligato.
Ripler (n.) Alt. of Ripper
Ripper (n.) One who brings fish from the seacoast to markets in inland towns.
Ripost (n.) In fencing, a return thrust after a parry.
Ripost (n.) A quick and sharp refort; a repartee.
Ripper (n.) One who, or that which, rips; a ripping tool.
Ripper (n.) A tool for trimming the edges of roofing slates.
Ripper (n.) Anything huge, extreme, startling, etc.
Ripple (v.) An implement, with teeth like those of a comb, for removing the seeds and seed vessels from flax, broom corn, etc.
Ripple (v. t.) To remove the seeds from (the stalks of flax, etc.), by means of a ripple.
Ripple (v. t.) Hence, to scratch or tear.
Rippled (imp. & p. p.) of Ripple
Rippling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ripple
Ripple (v. i.) To become fretted or dimpled on the surface, as water when agitated or running over a rough bottom; to be covered with small waves or undulations, as a field of grain.
Ripple (v. i.) To make a sound as of water running gently over a rough bottom, or the breaking of ripples on the shore.
Ripple (v. t.) To fret or dimple, as the surface of running water; to cover with small waves or undulations; as, the breeze rippled the lake.
Ripple (n.) The fretting or dimpling of the surface, as of running water; little curling waves.
Ripple (n.) A little wave or undulation; a sound such as is made by little waves; as, a ripple of laughter.
Ripple (n.) a small wave on the surface of water or other liquids for which the driving force is not gravity, but surface tension.
Ripple (n.) the residual AC component in the DC current output from a rectifier, expressed as a percentage of the steady component of the current.
Ripple-marked (a.) Having ripple marks.
Ripplet (n.) A small ripple.
Ripplingly (adv.) In a rippling manner.
Ripply (a.) Having ripples; as, ripply water; hence, resembling the sound of rippling water; as, ripply laughter; a ripply cove.
Riprap (n.) A foundation or sustaining wall of stones thrown together without order, as in deep water or on a soft bottom.
Riprapped (imp. & p. p.) of Riprap
Riprapping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Riprap
Riprap (v. t.) To form a riprap in or upon.
Ripsaw (v. t.) A handsaw with coarse teeth which have but a slight set, used for cutting wood in the direction of the fiber; -- called also ripping saw.
Riptowel (n.) A gratuity given to tenants after they had reaped their lord's corn.
Ris (n.) A bough or branch; a twig.
Rose (imp.) of Rise
Risen (p. p.) of Rise
Rising (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rise
Rise (v.) To move from a lower position to a higher; to ascend; to mount up. Specifically: -- (a) To go upward by walking, climbing, flying, or any other voluntary motion; as, a bird rises in the air; a fish rises to the bait.
Rise (v.) To ascend or float in a fluid, as gases or vapors in air, cork in water, and the like.
Rise (v.) To move upward under the influence of a projecting force; as, a bullet rises in the air.
Rise (v.) To grow upward; to attain a certain height; as, this elm rises to the height of seventy feet.
Rise (v.) To reach a higher level by increase of quantity or bulk; to swell; as, a river rises in its bed; the mercury rises in the thermometer.
Rise (v.) To become erect; to assume an upright position; as, to rise from a chair or from a fall.
Rise (v.) To leave one's bed; to arise; as, to rise early.
Rise (v.) To tower up; to be heaved up; as, the Alps rise far above the sea.
Rise (v.) To slope upward; as, a path, a line, or surface rises in this direction.
Rise (v.) To retire; to give up a siege.
Rise (v.) To swell or puff up in the process of fermentation; to become light, as dough, and the like.
Rise (v.) To have the aspect or the effect of rising.
Rise (v.) To appear above the horizont, as the sun, moon, stars, and the like.
Rise (v.) To become apparent; to emerge into sight; to come forth; to appear; as, an eruption rises on the skin; the land rises to view to one sailing toward the shore.
Rise (v.) To become perceptible to other senses than sight; as, a noise rose on the air; odor rises from the flower.
Rise (v.) To have a beginning; to proceed; to originate; as, rivers rise in lakes or springs.
Rise (v.) To increase in size, force, or value; to proceed toward a climax.
Rise (v.) To increase in power or fury; -- said of wind or a storm, and hence, of passion.
Rise (v.) To become of higher value; to increase in price.
Rise (v.) To become larger; to swell; -- said of a boil, tumor, and the like.
Rise (v.) To increase in intensity; -- said of heat.
Rise (v.) To become louder, or higher in pitch, as the voice.
Rise (v.) To increase in amount; to enlarge; as, his expenses rose beyond his expectations.
Rise (v.) In various figurative senses.
Rise (v.) To become excited, opposed, or hostile; to go to war; to take up arms; to rebel.
Rise (v.) To attain to a better social position; to be promoted; to excel; to succeed.
Rise (v.) To become more and more dignified or forcible; to increase in interest or power; -- said of style, thought, or discourse; as, to rise in force of expression; to rise in eloquence; a story rises in interest.
Rise (v.) To come to mind; to be suggested; to occur.
Rise (v.) To come; to offer itself.
Rise (v.) To ascend from the grave; to come to life.
Rise (v.) To terminate an official sitting; to adjourn; as, the committee rose after agreeing to the report.
Rise (v.) To ascend on a musical scale; to take a higher pith; as, to rise a tone or semitone.
Rise (v.) To be lifted, or to admit of being lifted, from the imposing stone without dropping any of the type; -- said of a form.
Rise (n.) The act of rising, or the state of being risen.
Rise (n.) The distance through which anything rises; as, the rise of the thermometer was ten degrees; the rise of the river was six feet; the rise of an arch or of a step.
Rise (n.) Land which is somewhat higher than the rest; as, the house stood on a rise of land.
Rise (n.) Spring; source; origin; as, the rise of a stream.
Rise (n.) Appearance above the horizon; as, the rise of the sun or of a planet.
Rise (n.) Increase; advance; augmentation, as of price, value, rank, property, fame, and the like.
Rise (n.) Increase of sound; a swelling of the voice.
Rise (n.) Elevation or ascent of the voice; upward change of key; as, a rise of a tone or semitone.
Rise (n.) The spring of a fish to seize food (as a fly) near the surface of the water.
Risen () p. p. & a. from Rise.
Risen (p. p. & a.) Obs. imp. pl. of Rise.
Riser (n.) One who rises; as, an early riser.
Riser (n.) The upright piece of a step, from tread to tread.
Riser (n.) Any small upright face, as of a seat, platform, veranda, or the like.
Riser (n.) A shaft excavated from below upward.
Riser (n.) A feed head. See under Feed, n.
Rish (n.) A rush (the plant).
Risibility (n.) The quality of being risible; as, risibility is peculiar to the human species.
Risible (a.) Having the faculty or power of laughing; disposed to laugh.
Risible (a.) Exciting laughter; worthy to be laughed at; amusing.
Risible (a.) Used in, or expressing, laughter; as, risible muscles.
Rising (a.) Attaining a higher place; taking, or moving in, an upward direction; appearing above the horizon; ascending; as, the rising moon.
Rising (a.) Increasing in wealth, power, or distinction; as, a rising state; a rising character.
Rising (a.) Growing; advancing to adult years and to the state of active life; as, the rising generation.
Rising (prep.) More than; exceeding; upwards of; as, a horse rising six years of age.
Rising (n.) The act of one who, or that which, rises (in any sense).
Rising (n.) That which rises; a tumor; a boil.
Risk (n.) Hazard; danger; peril; exposure to loss, injury, or destruction.
Risk (n.) Hazard of loss; liabillity to loss in property.
Risked (imp. & p. p.) of Risk
Risking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Risk
Risk (n.) To expose to risk, hazard, or peril; to venture; as, to risk goods on board of a ship; to risk one's person in battle; to risk one's fame by a publication.
Risk (n.) To incur the risk or danger of; as, to risk a battle.
Risker (n.) One who risks or hazards.
Riskful (a.) Risky.
Risky (a.) Attended with risk or danger; hazardous.
Risorial (a.) Pertaining to, or producing, laughter; as, the risorial muscles.
Risotto (n.) A kind of pottage.
Risse () imp. of Rise.
Rissoid (n.) Any one of very numerous species of small spiral gastropods of the genus Rissoa, or family Rissoidae, found both in fresh and salt water.
Rissole (n.) A small ball of rich minced meat or fish, covered with pastry and fried.
Rist () 3d pers. sing. pres. of Rise, contracted from riseth.
Rit () 3d pers. sing. pres. of Ride, contracted from rideth.
Ritardando (a.) Retarding; -- a direction for slower time; rallentado.
Rite (n.) The act of performing divine or solemn service, as established by law, precept, or custom; a formal act of religion or other solemn duty; a solemn observance; a ceremony; as, the rites of freemasonry.
Ritenuto (a.) Held back; holding back; ritardando.
Ritornelle (n.) Alt. of Ritornello
Ritornello (n.) A short return or repetition; a concluding symphony to an air, often consisting of the burden of the song.
Ritornello (n.) A short intermediate symphony, or instrumental passage, in the course of a vocal piece; an interlude.
Ritratto (n.) A picture.
Ritual (a.) Of or pertaining to rites or ritual; as, ritual service or sacrifices; the ritual law.
Ritual (n.) A prescribed form of performing divine service in a particular church or communion; as, the Jewish ritual.
Ritual (n.) Hence, the code of ceremonies observed by an organization; as, the ritual of the freemasons.
Ritual (n.) A book containing the rites to be observed.
Ritualism (n.) A system founded upon a ritual or prescribed form of religious worship; adherence to, or observance of, a ritual.
Ritualism (n.) Specifically :(a) The principles and practices of those in the Church of England, who in the development of the Oxford movement, so-called, have insisted upon a return to the use in church services of the symbolic ornaments (altar cloths, encharistic vestments, candles, etc.) that were sanctioned in the second year of Edward VI., and never, as they maintain, forbidden by competennt authority, although generally disused. Schaff-Herzog Encyc. (b) Also, the principles and practices of those in the Protestant Episcopal Church who sympathize with this party in the Church of England.
Ritualist (n.) One skilled un, or attached to, a ritual; one who advocates or practices ritualism.
Ritualistic (a.) Pertaining to, or in accordance with, a ritual; adhering to ritualism.
Ritually (adv.) By rites, or by a particular rite.
Rivage (n.) A bank, shore, or coast.
Rivage (n.) A duty paid to the crown for the passage of vessels on certain rivers.
Rival (n.) A person having a common right or privilege with another; a partner.
Rival (n.) One who is in pursuit of the same object as another; one striving to reach or obtain something which another is attempting to obtain, and which one only can posses; a competitor; as, rivals in love; rivals for a crown.
Rival (a.) Having the same pretensions or claims; standing in competition for superiority; as, rival lovers; rival claims or pretensions.
Rivaled (imp. & p. p.) of Rival
Rivalled () of Rival
Rivaling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rival
Rivalling () of Rival
Rival (v. t.) To stand in competition with; to strive to gain some object in opposition to; as, to rival one in love.
Rival (v. t.) To strive to equal or exel; to emulate.
Rival (v. i.) To be in rivalry.
Rivaless (n.) A female rival.
Rivality (n.) Rivalry; competition.
Rivality (n.) Equality, as of right or rank.
Rivalries (pl. ) of Rivalry
Rivalry (n.) The act of rivaling, or the state of being a rival; a competition.
Rivalship (n.) Rivalry.
Rived (imp.) of Rive
Rived (p. p.) of Rive
Riven () of Rive
Riving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rive
Rive (v. t.) To rend asunder by force; to split; to cleave; as, to rive timber for rails or shingles.
Rive (v. i.) To be split or rent asunder.
Rive (n.) A place torn; a rent; a rift.
Riveled (imp. & p. p.) of Rivel
Riveling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rivel
Rivel (v. t.) To contract into wrinkles; to shrivel; to shrink; as, riveled fruit; riveled flowers.
Rivel (n.) A wrinkle; a rimple.
Riven () p. p. & a. from Rive.
River (n.) One who rives or splits.
River (n.) A large stream of water flowing in a bed or channel and emptying into the ocean, a sea, a lake, or another stream; a stream larger than a rivulet or brook.
River (n.) Fig.: A large stream; copious flow; abundance; as, rivers of blood; rivers of oil.
River (v. i.) To hawk by the side of a river; to fly hawks at river fowl.
Rivered (a.) Supplied with rivers; as, a well rivered country.
Riveret (n.) A rivulet.
Riverhood (n.) The quality or state of being a river.
Riverling (n.) A rivulet.
Riverside (n.) The side or bank of a river.
Rivery (a.) Having rivers; as, a rivery country.
Rivet (n.) A metallic pin with a head, used for uniting two plates or pieces of material together, by passing it through them and then beating or pressing down the point so that it shall spread out and form a second head; a pin or bolt headed or clinched at both ends.
Riveted (imp. & p. p.) of Rivet
Riveting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rivet
Rivet (v. t.) To fasten with a rivet, or with rivets; as, to rivet two pieces of iron.
Rivet (v. t.) To spread out the end or point of, as of a metallic pin, rod, or bolt, by beating or pressing, so as to form a sort of head.
Rivet (v. t.) Hence, to fasten firmly; to make firm, strong, or immovable; as, to rivet friendship or affection.
Riveter (n.) One who rivets.
Riveting (n.) The act of joining with rivets; the act of spreading out and clinching the end, as of a rivet, by beating or pressing.
Riveting (n.) The whole set of rivets, collectively.
Rivose (a.) Marked with sinuate and irregular furrows.
Rivulet (n.) A small stream or brook; a streamlet.
Rixation (n.) A brawl or quarrel.
Rixatrix (n.) A scolding or quarrelsome woman; a scold.
Rixdaler (n.) A Dutch silver coin, worth about $1.00.
Rix-dollar (n.) A name given to several different silver coins of Denmark, Holland, Sweden,, NOrway, etc., varying in value from about 30 cents to $1.10; also, a British coin worth about 36 cents, used in Ceylon and at the Cape of Good Hope. See Rigsdaler, Riksdaler, and Rixdaler.
Rizzar (v. t.) To dry in the sun; as, rizzared haddock.
Roach (n.) A cockroach.
Roach (n.) A European fresh-water fish of the Carp family (Leuciscus rutilus). It is silver-white, with a greenish back.
Roach (n.) An American chub (Semotilus bullaris); the fallfish.
Roach (n.) The redfin, or shiner.
Roach (n.) A convex curve or arch cut in the edge of a sail to prevent chafing, or to secure a better fit.
Roach (v. t.) To cause to arch.
Roach (v. t.) To cut off, as a horse's mane, so that the part left shall stand upright.
Roach-backed (a.) Having a back like that of roach; -- said of a horse whose back a convex instead of a concave curve.
Road (n.) A journey, or stage of a journey.
Road (n.) An inroad; an invasion; a raid.
Road (n.) A place where one may ride; an open way or public passage for vehicles, persons, and animals; a track for travel, forming a means of communication between one city, town, or place, and another.
Road (n.) A place where ships may ride at anchor at some distance from the shore; a roadstead; -- often in the plural; as, Hampton Roads.
Roadbed (n.) In railroads, the bed or foundation on which the superstructure (ties, rails, etc.) rests; in common roads, the whole material laid in place and ready for travel.
Roadless (a.) Destitute of roads.
Roadmaker (n.) One who makes roads.
Roadside (n.) Land adjoining a road or highway; the part of a road or highway that borders the traveled part. Also used ajectively.
Roadstead (n.) An anchorage off shore. Same as Road, 4.
Roadster (n.) A clumsy vessel that works its way from one anchorage to another by means of the tides.
Roadster (n.) A horse that is accustomed to traveling on the high road, or is suitable for use on ordinary roads.
Roadster (n.) A bicycle or tricycle adapted for common roads rather than for the racing track.
Roadster (n.) One who drives much; a coach driver.
Roadster (n.) A hunter who keeps to the roads instead of following the hounds across country.
Roadway (n.) A road; especially, the part traveled by carriages.
Roamed (imp. & p. p.) of Roam
Roaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Roam
Roam (v. i.) To go from place to place without any certain purpose or direction; to rove; to wander.
Roam (v. t.) To range or wander over.
Roam (n.) The act of roaming; a wandering; a ramble; as, he began his roam o'er hill amd dale.
Roamer (n.) One who roams; a wanderer.
Roan (a.) Having a bay, chestnut, brown, or black color, with gray or white thickly interspersed; -- said of a horse.
Roan (a.) Made of the leather called roan; as, roan binding.
Roan (n.) The color of a roan horse; a roan color.
Roan (n.) A roan horse.
Roan (n.) A kind of leather used for slippers, bookbinding, etc., made from sheepskin, tanned with sumac and colored to imitate ungrained morocco.
Roared (imp. & p. p.) of Roar
Roaring (p. pr. & vvb. n.) of Roar
Roar (v. i.) To cry with a full, loud, continued sound.
Roar (v. i.) To bellow, or utter a deep, loud cry, as a lion or other beast.
Roar (v. i.) To cry loudly, as in pain, distress, or anger.
Roar (v. i.) To make a loud, confused sound, as winds, waves, passing vehicles, a crowd of persons when shouting together, or the like.
Roar (v. i.) To be boisterous; to be disorderly.
Roar (v. i.) To laugh out loudly and continuously; as, the hearers roared at his jokes.
Roar (v. i.) To make a loud noise in breathing, as horses having a certain disease. See Roaring, 2.
Roar (v. t.) To cry aloud; to proclaim loudly.
Roar (n.) The sound of roaring.
Roar (n.) The deep, loud cry of a wild beast; as, the roar of a lion.
Roar (n.) The cry of one in pain, distress, anger, or the like.
Roar (n.) A loud, continuous, and confused sound; as, the roar of a cannon, of the wind, or the waves; the roar of ocean.
Roar (n.) A boisterous outcry or shouting, as in mirth.
Roarer (n.) One who, or that which, roars.
Roarer (n.) A riotous fellow; a roaring boy.
Roarer (n.) A horse subject to roaring. See Roaring, 2.
Roarer (n.) The barn owl.
Roaring (n.) A loud, deep, prolonged sound, as of a large beast, or of a person in distress, anger, mirth, etc., or of a noisy congregation.
Roaring (n.) An affection of the windpipe of a horse, causing a loud, peculiar noise in breathing under exertion; the making of the noise so caused. See Roar, v. i., 5.
Roaringly (adv.) In a roaring manner.
Roasted (imp. & p. p.) of Roast
Roasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Roast
Roast (v. t.) To cook by exposure to radiant heat before a fire; as, to roast meat on a spit, or in an oven open toward the fire and having reflecting surfaces within; also, to cook in a close oven.
Roast (v. t.) To cook by surrounding with hot embers, ashes, sand, etc.; as, to roast a potato in ashes.
Roast (v. t.) To dry and parch by exposure to heat; as, to roast coffee; to roast chestnuts, or peanuts.
Roast (v. t.) Hence, to heat to excess; to heat violently; to burn.
Roast (v. t.) To dissipate by heat the volatile parts of, as ores.
Roast (v. t.) To banter severely.
Roast (v. i.) To cook meat, fish, etc., by heat, as before the fire or in an oven.
Roast (v. i.) To undergo the process of being roasted.
Roast (n.) That which is roasted; a piece of meat which has been roasted, or is suitable for being roasted.
Roast (a.) Roasted; as, roast beef.
Roaster (n.) One who roasts meat.
Roaster (n.) A contrivance for roasting.
Roaster (n.) A pig, or other article of food fit for roasting.
Roasting () a. & n., from Roast, v.
Rob (n.) The inspissated juice of ripe fruit, obtained by evaporation of the juice over a fire till it acquires the consistence of a sirup. It is sometimes mixed with honey or sugar.
Robbed (imp. & p. p.) of Rob
Robbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rob
Rob (v. t.) To take (something) away from by force; to strip by stealing; to plunder; to pillage; to steal from.
Rob (v. t.) To take the property of (any one) from his person, or in his presence, feloniously, and against his will, by violence or by putting him in fear.
Rob (v. t.) To deprive of, or withhold from, unjustly or injuriously; to defraud; as, to rob one of his rest, or of his good name; a tree robs the plants near it of sunlight.
Rob (v. i.) To take that which belongs to another, without right or permission, esp. by violence.
Roband (n.) See Roperand.
Robber (n.) One who robs; in law, one who feloniously takes goods or money from the person of another by violence or by putting him in fear.
Robberies (pl. ) of Robbery
Robbery (n.) The act or practice of robbing; theft.
Robbery (n.) The crime of robbing. See Rob, v. t., 2.
Robbin (n.) A kind of package in which pepper and other dry commodities are sometimes exported from the East Indies. The robbin of rice in Malabar weighs about 84 pounds.
Robbin (n.) See Ropeband.
Robe (v. t.) An outer garment; a dress of a rich, flowing, and elegant style or make; hence, a dress of state, rank, office, or the like.
Robe (v. t.) A skin of an animal, especially, a skin of the bison, dressed with the fur on, and used as a wrap.
Robed (imp. & p. p.) of Robe
Robing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Robe
Robe (v. t.) To invest with a robe or robes; to dress; to array; as, fields robed with green.
Robe-de-chambre (n.) A dressing gown, or morning gown.
-men (pl. ) of Robertsman
Roberdsman (n.) Alt. of Robertsman
Robertsman (n.) A bold, stout robber, or night thief; -- said to be so called from Robin Hood.
Robert (n.) See Herb Robert, under Herb.
Robin (n.) A small European singing bird (Erythacus rubecula), having a reddish breast; -- called also robin redbreast, robinet, and ruddock.
Robin (n.) An American singing bird (Merula migratoria), having the breast chestnut, or dull red. The upper parts are olive-gray, the head and tail blackish. Called also robin redbreast, and migratory thrush.
Robin (n.) Any one of several species of Australian warblers of the genera Petroica, Melanadrays, and allied genera; as, the scarlet-breasted robin (Petroica mullticolor).
Robin (n.) Any one of several Asiatic birds; as, the Indian robins. See Indian robin, below.
Robinet (n.) The chaffinch; -- called also roberd.
Robinet (n.) The European robin.
Robinet (n.) A military engine formerly used for throwing darts and stones.
Robing (n.) The act of putting on a robe.
Robin Goodfellow () A celebrated fairy; Puck. See Puck.
Robinia (n.) A genus of leguminous trees including the common locust of North America (Robinia Pseudocacia).
Roborant (a.) Strengthening.
Roborant (n.) A strengthening medicine; a tonic.
Roborate (v. t.) To give strength or support to; to confirm.
Roboration (n.) The act of strengthening.
Roborean (a.) Alt. of Roboreous
Roboreous (a.) Made of oak.
Robust (a.) Evincing strength; indicating vigorous health; strong; sinewy; muscular; vigorous; sound; as, a robust body; robust youth; robust health.
Robust (a.) Violent; rough; rude.
Robust (a.) Requiring strength or vigor; as, robust employment.
Robustious (a.) Robust.
Robustly (adv.) In a robust manner.
Robustness (n.) The quality or state of being robust.
Roc (n.) A monstrous bird of Arabian mythology.
Rocambole (n.) A name of Allium Scorodoprasum and A. Ascalonium, two kinds of garlic, the latter of which is also called shallot.
Roccellic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a dibasic acid of the oxalic series found in archil (Roccella tinctoria, etc.), and other lichens, and extracted as a white crystalline substance C17H32O4.
Roccellin (n.) A red dyestuff, used as a substitute for cochineal, archil, etc. It consists of the sodium salt of a complex azo derivative of naphtol.
Roche (n.) Rock.
Roche alum () A kind of alum occuring in small fragments; -- so called from Rocca, in Syria, whence alum is said to have been obtained; -- also called rock alum.
Rochelime (n.) Lime in the lump after it is burned; quicklime.
Rochelle (n.) A seaport town in France.
Roche moutonnee () See Sheepback.
Rochet (n.) A linen garment resembling the surplise, but with narrower sleeves, also without sleeves, worn by bishops, and by some other ecclesiastical dignitaries, in certain religious ceremonies.
Rochet (n.) A frock or outer garment worn in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries.
Rochet (n.) The red gurnard, or gurnet. See Gurnard.
Roching cask () A tank in which alum is crystallized from a solution.
Rock (n.) See Roc.
Rock (n.) A distaff used in spinning; the staff or frame about which flax is arranged, and from which the thread is drawn in spinning.
Rock (n.) A large concreted mass of stony material; a large fixed stone or crag. See Stone.
Rock (n.) Any natural deposit forming a part of the earth's crust, whether consolidated or not, including sand, earth, clay, etc., when in natural beds.
Rock (n.) That which resembles a rock in firmness; a defense; a support; a refuge.
Rock (n.) Fig.: Anything which causes a disaster or wreck resembling the wreck of a vessel upon a rock.
Rock (n.) The striped bass. See under Bass.
Rocked (imp. & p. p.) of Rock
Rocking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rock
Rock (v. t.) To cause to sway backward and forward, as a body resting on a support beneath; as, to rock a cradle or chair; to cause to vibrate; to cause to reel or totter.
Rock (v. t.) To move as in a cradle; hence, to put to sleep by rocking; to still; to quiet.
Rock (v. i.) To move or be moved backward and forward; to be violently agitated; to reel; to totter.
Rock (v. i.) To roll or saway backward and forward upon a support; as, to rock in a rocking-chair.
Rockaway () Formerly, a light, low, four-wheeled carriage, with standing top, open at the sides, but having waterproof curtains which could be let down when occasion required; now, a somewhat similar, but heavier, carriage, inclosed, except in front, and having a door at each side.
Rockelay (n.) Alt. of Rocklay
Rocklay (n.) See Rokelay.
Rocker (n.) One who rocks; specifically, one who rocks a cradle.
Rocker (n.) One of the curving pieces of wood or metal on which a cradle, chair, etc., rocks.
Rocker (n.) Any implement or machine working with a rocking motion, as a trough mounted on rockers for separating gold dust from gravel, etc., by agitation in water.
Rocker (n.) A play horse on rockers; a rocking-horse.
Rocker (n.) A chair mounted on rockers; a rocking-chair.
Rocker (n.) A skate with a curved blade, somewhat resembling in shape the rocker of a cradle.
Rocker (n.) Same as Rock shaft.
Rockered (a.) Shaped like a rocker; curved; as, a rockered keel.
Rockery (n.) A mound formed of fragments of rock, earth, etc., and set with plants.
Rocket (n.) A cruciferous plant (Eruca sativa) sometimes eaten in Europe as a salad.
Rocket (n.) Damewort.
Rocket (n.) Rocket larkspur. See below.
Rocket (n.) An artificial firework consisting of a cylindrical case of paper or metal filled with a composition of combustible ingredients, as niter, charcoal, and sulphur, and fastened to a guiding stick. The rocket is projected through the air by the force arising from the expansion of the gases liberated by combustion of the composition. Rockets are used as projectiles for various purposes, for signals, and also for pyrotechnic display.
Rocket (n.) A blunt lance head used in the joust.
Rocketed (imp. & p. p.) of Rocket
Rocketing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rocket
Rocket (v. i.) To rise straight up; said of birds; usually in the present participle or as an adjective.
Rocketer (n.) A bird, especially a pheasant, which, being flushed, rises straight in the air like a rocket.
Rockfish (n.) Any one of several California scorpaenoid food fishes of the genus Sebastichthys, as the red rockfish (S. ruber). They are among the most important of California market fishes. Called also rock cod, and garrupa.
Rockfish (n.) The striped bass. See Bass.
Rockfish (n.) Any one of several species of Florida and Bermuda groupers of the genus Epinephelus.
Rockfish (n.) An American fresh-water darter; the log perch.
Rockiness (n.) The state or quality of being rocky.
Rocking (a.) Having a swaying, rolling, or back-and-forth movement; used for rocking.
Rocking-chair (n.) A chair mounted on rockers, in which one may rock.
Rocking-horse (n.) The figure of a horse, mounted upon rockers, for children to ride.
Rocking-stone (n.) A stone, often of great size and weight, resting upon another stone, and so exactly poised that it can be rocked, or slightly moved, with but little force.
Rockless (a.) Being without rocks.
Rockling (n.) Any species of small marine fishes of the genera Onos and Rhinonemus (formerly Motella), allied to the cod. They have three or four barbels.
Rockrose (n.) A name given to any species of the genus Helianthemum, low shrubs or herbs with yellow flowers, especially the European H. vulgare and the American frostweed, H. Canadense.
Rock shaft () A shaft that oscillates on its journals, instead of revolving, -- usually carrying levers by means of which it receives and communicates reciprocating motion, as in the valve gear of some steam engines; -- called also rocker, rocking shaft, and way shaft.
Rock staff (v. i.) An oscillating bar in a machine, as the lever of the bellows of a forge.
Rocksucker (n.) A lamprey.
Rockweed (n.) Any coarse seaweed growing on sea-washed rocks, especially Fucus.
Rockwood (n.) Ligniform asbestus; also, fossil wood.
Rockwork (n.) Stonework in which the surface is left broken and rough.
Rockwork (n.) A rockery.
Rocky (a.) Full of, or abounding in, rocks; consisting of rocks; as, a rocky mountain; a rocky shore.
Rocky (a.) Like a rock; as, the rocky orb of a shield.
Rocky (a.) Fig.: Not easily impressed or affected; hard; unfeeling; obdurate; as, a rocky bosom.
Rocoa (n.) The orange-colored pulp covering the seeds of the tropical plant Bixa Orellana, from which annotto is prepared. See Annoto.
Rococo (n.) A florid style of ornamentation which prevailed in Europe in the latter part of the eighteenth century.
Rococo (a.) Of or pertaining to the style called rococo; like rococo; florid; fantastic.
Rod (n.) A straight and slender stick; a wand; hence, any slender bar, as of wood or metal (applied to various purposes).
Rod (n.) An instrument of punishment or correction; figuratively, chastisement.
Rod (n.) A kind of sceptor, or badge of office; hence, figuratively, power; authority; tyranny; oppression.
Rod (n.) A support for a fishing line; a fish pole.
Rod (n.) A member used in tension, as for sustaining a suspended weight, or in tension and compression, as for transmitting reciprocating motion, etc.; a connecting bar.
Rod (n.) An instrument for measuring.
Rod (n.) A measure of length containing sixteen and a half feet; -- called also perch, and pole.
Roddy (a.) Full of rods or twigs.
Roddy (a.) Ruddy.
Rode (n.) Redness; complexion.
Rode () imp. of Ride.
Rode (n.) See Rood, the cross.
Rodent (v. t.) Gnawing; biting; corroding; (Med.) applied to a destructive variety of cancer or ulcer.
Rodent (v. t.) Gnawing.
Rodent (v. t.) Of or pertaining to the Rodentia.
Rodent (n.) One of the Rodentia.
Rodentia (a.) An order of mammals having two (rarely four) large incisor teeth in each jaw, distant from the molar teeth. The rats, squirrels, rabbits, marmots, and beavers belong to this order.
Rodeo (n.) A round-up. See Round-up.
Rodge (n.) The gadwall.
Rodomel (n.) Juice of roses mixed with honey.
Rodomont (n.) A vain or blustering boaster; a braggart; a braggadocio.
Rodomont (a.) Bragging; vainly boasting.
Rodomontade (n.) Vain boasting; empty bluster or vaunting; rant.
Rodomontade (v. i.) To boast; to brag; to bluster; to rant.
Rodomontadist (n.) One who boasts.
Rodomontado (n.) Rodomontade.
Rodomontador (n.) A rodomontadist.
Rodsmen (pl. ) of Rodsman
Rodsman (n.) One who carries and holds a leveling staff, or rod, in a surveying party.
Rody (a.) Ruddy.
Roe (n.) A roebuck. See Roebuck.
Roe (n.) The female of any species of deer.
Roe (n.) The ova or spawn of fishes and amphibians, especially when still inclosed in the ovarian membranes. Sometimes applied, loosely, to the sperm and the testes of the male.
Roe (n.) A mottled appearance of light and shade in wood, especially in mahogany.
Roebuck (n.) A small European and Asiatic deer (Capreolus capraea) having erect, cylindrical, branched antlers, forked at the summit. This, the smallest European deer, is very nimble and graceful. It always prefers a mountainous country, or high grounds.
Roed (a.) Filled with roe.
Roedeer (n.) The roebuck.
Roestone (n.) Same as Oolite.
Rogation (n.) The demand, by the consuls or tribunes, of a law to be passed by the people; a proposed law or decree.
Rogation (n.) Litany; supplication.
Rogatory (a.) Seeking information; authorized to examine witnesses or ascertain facts; as, a rogatory commission.
Rogue (n.) A vagrant; an idle, sturdy beggar; a vagabond; a tramp.
Rogue (n.) A deliberately dishonest person; a knave; a cheat.
Rogue (n.) One who is pleasantly mischievous or frolicsome; hence, often used as a term of endearment.
Rogue (n.) An elephant that has separated from a herd and roams about alone, in which state it is very savage.
Rogue (n.) A worthless plant occuring among seedlings of some choice variety.
Rogue (v. i.) To wander; to play the vagabond; to play knavish tricks.
Rogue (v. t.) To give the name or designation of rogue to; to decry.
Rogue (v. t.) To destroy (plants that do not come up to a required standard).
Roguery (n.) The life of a vargant.
Roguery (n.) The practices of a rogue; knavish tricks; cheating; fraud; dishonest practices.
Roguery (n.) Arch tricks; mischievousness.
Rogueship (n.) The quality or state of being a rogue.
Roguish (a.) Vagrant.
Roguish (a.) Resembling, or characteristic of, a rogue; knavish.
Roguish (a.) Pleasantly mischievous; waggish; arch.
Roguy (a.) Roguish.
Rohob (n.) An inspissated juice. See Rob.
Roial (a.) Royal.
Roiled (imp. & p. p.) of Roil
Roiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Roil
Roil (v.) To render turbid by stirring up the dregs or sediment of; as, to roil wine, cider, etc. , in casks or bottles; to roil a spring.
Roil (v.) To disturb, as the temper; to ruffle the temper of; to rouse the passion of resentment in; to perplex.
Roil (v. i.) To wander; to roam.
Roil (v. i.) To romp.
Roily (a.) Turbid; as, roily water.
Roin (v. t.) See Royne.
Roin (n.) A scab; a scurf, or scurfy spot.
Roinish (a.) See Roynish.
Roint (interj.) See Aroint.
Roist (v. i.) See Roister.
Roister (v. i.) To bluster; to swagger; to bully; to be bold, noisy, vaunting, or turbulent.
Roister (n.) See Roisterer.
Roisterer (n.) A blustering, turbulent fellow.
Roisterly (a.) Blustering; violent.
Roisterly (adv.) In a roistering manner.
Rokambole (n.) See Rocambole.
Roke (n.) Mist; smoke; damp
Roke (n.) A vein of ore.
Rokeage (n.) Alt. of Rokee
Rokee (n.) Parched Indian corn, pounded up and mixed with sugar; -- called also yokeage.
Rokelay (n.) A short cloak.
Roky (a.) Misty; foggy; cloudy.
Role (n.) A part, or character, performed by an actor in a drama; hence, a part of function taken or assumed by any one; as, he has now taken the role of philanthropist.
Rolled (imp. & p. p.) of Roll
Rolling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Roll
Roll (n.) To cause to revolve by turning over and over; to move by turning on an axis; to impel forward by causing to turn over and over on a supporting surface; as, to roll a wheel, a ball, or a barrel.
Roll (n.) To wrap round on itself; to form into a spherical or cylindrical body by causing to turn over and over; as, to roll a sheet of paper; to roll parchment; to roll clay or putty into a ball.
Roll (n.) To bind or involve by winding, as in a bandage; to inwrap; -- often with up; as, to roll up a parcel.
Roll (n.) To drive or impel forward with an easy motion, as of rolling; as, a river rolls its waters to the ocean.
Roll (n.) To utter copiously, esp. with sounding words; to utter with a deep sound; -- often with forth, or out; as, to roll forth some one's praises; to roll out sentences.
Roll (n.) To press or level with a roller; to spread or form with a roll, roller, or rollers; as, to roll a field; to roll paste; to roll steel rails, etc.
Roll (n.) To move, or cause to be moved, upon, or by means of, rollers or small wheels.
Roll (n.) To beat with rapid, continuous strokes, as a drum; to sound a roll upon.
Roll (n.) To apply (one line or surface) to another without slipping; to bring all the parts of (one line or surface) into successive contact with another, in suck manner that at every instant the parts that have been in contact are equal.
Roll (n.) To turn over in one's mind; to revolve.
Roll (v. i.) To move, as a curved object may, along a surface by rotation without sliding; to revolve upon an axis; to turn over and over; as, a ball or wheel rolls on the earth; a body rolls on an inclined plane.
Roll (v. i.) To move on wheels; as, the carriage rolls along the street.
Roll (v. i.) To be wound or formed into a cylinder or ball; as, the cloth rolls unevenly; the snow rolls well.
Roll (v. i.) To fall or tumble; -- with over; as, a stream rolls over a precipice.
Roll (v. i.) To perform a periodical revolution; to move onward as with a revolution; as, the rolling year; ages roll away.
Roll (v. i.) To turn; to move circularly.
Roll (v. i.) To move, as waves or billows, with alternate swell and depression.
Roll (v. i.) To incline first to one side, then to the other; to rock; as, there is a great difference in ships about rolling; in a general semse, to be tossed about.
Roll (v. i.) To turn over, or from side to side, while lying down; to wallow; as, a horse rolls.
Roll (v. i.) To spread under a roller or rolling-pin; as, the paste rolls well.
Roll (v. i.) To beat a drum with strokes so rapid that they can scarcely be distinguished by the ear.
Roll (v. i.) To make a loud or heavy rumbling noise; as, the thunder rolls.
Roll (v.) The act of rolling, or state of being rolled; as, the roll of a ball; the roll of waves.
Roll (v.) That which rolls; a roller.
Roll (v.) A heavy cylinder used to break clods.
Roll (v.) One of a set of revolving cylinders, or rollers, between which metal is pressed, formed, or smoothed, as in a rolling mill; as, to pass rails through the rolls.
Roll (v.) That which is rolled up; as, a roll of fat, of wool, paper, cloth, etc.
Roll (v.) A document written on a piece of parchment, paper, or other materials which may be rolled up; a scroll.
Roll (v.) Hence, an official or public document; a register; a record; also, a catalogue; a list.
Roll (v.) A quantity of cloth wound into a cylindrical form; as, a roll of carpeting; a roll of ribbon.
Roll (v.) A cylindrical twist of tobacco.
Roll (v.) A kind of shortened raised biscuit or bread, often rolled or doubled upon itself.
Roll (v.) The oscillating movement of a vessel from side to side, in sea way, as distinguished from the alternate rise and fall of bow and stern called pitching.
Roll (v.) A heavy, reverberatory sound; as, the roll of cannon, or of thunder.
Roll (v.) The uniform beating of a drum with strokes so rapid as scarcely to be distinguished by the ear.
Roll (v.) Part; office; duty; role.
Rollable (a.) Capable of being rolled.
Roller (n.) One who, or that which, rolls; especially, a cylinder, sometimes grooved, of wood, stone, metal, etc., used in husbandry and the arts.
Roller (n.) A bandage; a fillet; properly, a long and broad bandage used in surgery.
Roller (n.) One of series of long, heavy waves which roll in upon a coast, sometimes in calm weather.
Roller (n.) A long, belt-formed towel, to be suspended on a rolling cylinder; -- called also roller towel.
Roller (n.) A cylinder coated with a composition made principally of glue and molassess, with which forms of type are inked previously to taking an impression from them.
Roller (n.) A long cylinder on which something is rolled up; as, the roller of a man.
Roller (n.) A small wheel, as of a caster, a roller skate, etc.
Roller (n.) ANy insect whose larva rolls up leaves; a leaf roller. see Tortrix.
Roller (n.) Any one of numerous species of Old World picarian birds of the family Coraciadae. The name alludes to their habit of suddenly turning over or "tumbling" in flight.
Roller (n.) Any species of small ground snakes of the family Tortricidae.
Rolley (n.) A small wagon used for the underground work of a mine.
Rollicked (imp. & p. p.) of Rollic
Rollicking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rollic
Rollic (v. i.) To move or play in a careless, swaggering manner, with a frolicsome air; to frolic; to sport; commonly in the form rollicking.
Rolling (a.) Rotating on an axis, or moving along a surface by rotation; turning over and over as if on an axis or a pivot; as, a rolling wheel or ball.
Rolling (a.) Moving on wheels or rollers, or as if on wheels or rollers; as, a rolling chair.
Rolling (a.) Having gradual, rounded undulations of surface; as, a rolling country; rolling land.
Rolling-pin (n.) A cylindrical piece of wood or other material, with which paste or dough may be rolled out and reduced to a proper thickness.
Rollway (n.) A place prepared for rolling logs into a stream.
Rolly-poly (n.) A kind of pudding made of paste spread with fruit, rolled into a cylindrical form, and boiled or steamed.
Rolly-poly (a.) Shaped like a rolly-poly; short and stout.
Rolly-pooly (n.) A game in which a ball, rolling into a certain place, wins.
Roly-poly (n. & a.) Rolly-poly.
Romage (n. & v.) See Rummage.
Romaic (a.) Of or relating to modern Greece, and especially to its language.
Romaic (n.) The modern Greek language, now usually called by the Greeks Hellenic or Neo-Hellenic.
Roman (a.) Of or pertaining to Rome, or the Roman people; like or characteristic of Rome, the Roman people, or things done by Romans; as, Roman fortitude; a Roman aqueduct; Roman art.
Roman (a.) Of or pertaining to the Roman Catholic religion; professing that religion.
Roman (a.) Upright; erect; -- said of the letters or kind of type ordinarily used, as distinguished from Italic characters.
Roman (a.) Expressed in letters, not in figures, as I., IV., i., iv., etc.; -- said of numerals, as distinguished from the Arabic numerals, 1, 4, etc.
Roman (n.) A native, or permanent resident, of Rome; a citizen of Rome, or one upon whom certain rights and privileges of a Roman citizen were conferred.
Roman (n.) Roman type, letters, or print, collectively; -- in distinction from Italics.
Romance (n.) A species of fictitious writing, originally composed in meter in the Romance dialects, and afterward in prose, such as the tales of the court of Arthur, and of Amadis of Gaul; hence, any fictitious and wonderful tale; a sort of novel, especially one which treats of surprising adventures usually befalling a hero or a heroine; a tale of extravagant adventures, of love, and the like.
Romance (n.) An adventure, or series of extraordinary events, resembling those narrated in romances; as, his courtship, or his life, was a romance.
Romance (n.) A dreamy, imaginative habit of mind; a disposition to ignore what is real; as, a girl full of romance.
Romance (n.) The languages, or rather the several dialects, which were originally forms of popular or vulgar Latin, and have now developed into Italian. Spanish, French, etc. (called the Romanic languages).
Romance (n.) A short lyric tale set to music; a song or short instrumental piece in ballad style; a romanza.
Romance (a.) Of or pertaining to the language or dialects known as Romance.
Romanced (imp. & p. p.) of Romance
Romancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Romance
Romance (v. i.) To write or tell romances; to indulge in extravagant stories.
Romancer (n.) One who romances.
Romancist (n.) A romancer.
Romancy (a.) Romantic.
Romanesque (a.) Somewhat resembling the Roman; -- applied sometimes to the debased style of the later Roman empire, but esp. to the more developed architecture prevailing from the 8th century to the 12th.
Romanesque (a.) Of or pertaining to romance or fable; fanciful.
Romanesque (n.) Romanesque style.
Romanic (n.) Of or pertaining to Rome or its people.
Romanic (n.) Of or pertaining to any or all of the various languages which, during the Middle Ages, sprung out of the old Roman, or popular form of Latin, as the Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, French, Provencal, etc.
Romanic (n.) Related to the Roman people by descent; -- said especially of races and nations speaking any of the Romanic tongues.
Romanish (a.) Pertaining to Romanism.
Romanism (n.) The tenets of the Church of Rome; the Roman Catholic religion.
Romanist (n.) One who adheres to Romanism.
Romanized (imp. & p. p.) of Romanize
Romanizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Romanize
Romanize (v. t.) To Latinize; to fill with Latin words or idioms.
Romanize (v. t.) To convert to the Roman Catholic religion.
Romanize (v. i.) To use Latin words and idioms.
Romanize (v. i.) To conform to Roman Catholic opinions, customs, or modes of speech.
Romanizer (n.) One who Romanizes.
Romansch (n.) The language of the Grisons in Switzerland, a corruption of the Latin.
Romant (n.) A romaunt.
Romantic (a.) Of or pertaining to romance; involving or resembling romance; hence, fanciful; marvelous; extravagant; unreal; as, a romantic tale; a romantic notion; a romantic undertaking.
Romantic (a.) Entertaining ideas and expectations suited to a romance; as, a romantic person; a romantic mind.
Romantic (a.) Of or pertaining to the style of the Christian and popular literature of the Middle Ages, as opposed to the classical antique; of the nature of, or appropriate to, that style; as, the romantic school of poets.
Romantic (a.) Characterized by strangeness or variety; suggestive of adventure; suited to romance; wild; picturesque; -- applied to scenery; as, a romantic landscape.
Romantical (a.) Romantic.
Romanticaly (adv.) In a romantic manner.
Romanticism (n.) A fondness for romantic characteristics or peculiarities; specifically, in modern literature, an aiming at romantic effects; -- applied to the productions of a school of writers who sought to revive certain medi/val forms and methods in opposition to the so-called classical style.
Romanticist (n.) One who advocates romanticism in modern literature.
Romanticly (adv.) Romantically.
Romanticness (n.) The state or quality of being romantic; widness; fancifulness.
Romany (n.) A gypsy.
Romany (n.) The language spoken among themselves by the gypsies.
Romanza (n.) See Romance, 5.
Romaunt (n.) A romantic story in verse; as, the "Romaunt of the Rose."
Romble (v.& n.) Rumble.
Rombowline (n.) Old, condemned canvas, rope, etc., unfit for use except in chafing gear.
Romeine (n.) Alt. of Romeite
Romeite (n.) A mineral of a hyacinth or honey-yellow color, occuring in square octahedrons. It is an antimonate of calcium.
Romekin (n.) A drinking cup.
Rome penny () Alt. of Rome scot
Rome scot () See Peter pence, under Peter.
Romeward (adv.) Toward Rome, or toward the Roman Catholic Church.
Romeward (a.) Tending or directed toward Rome, or toward the Roman Catholic Church.
Romic (n.) A method of notation for all spoken sounds, proposed by Mr. Sweet; -- so called because it is based on the common Roman-letter alphabet. It is like the palaeotype of Mr. Ellis in the general plan, but simpler.
Romish (a.) Belonging or relating to Rome, or to the Roman Catholic Church; -- frequently used in a disparaging sense; as, the Romish church; the Romish religion, ritual, or ceremonies.
Romist (n.) A Roman Catholic.
Romped (imp. & p. p.) of Romp
Romping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Romp
Romp (v. i.) To play rudely and boisterously; to leap and frisk about in play.
Romp (n.) A girl who indulges in boisterous play.
Romp (n.) Rude, boisterous play or frolic; rough sport.
Romping (a.) Inclined to romp; indulging in romps.
Rompingly (adv.) In a romping manner.
Rompish (a.) Given to rude play; inclined to romp.
Rompu (a.) Broken, as an ordinary; cut off, or broken at the top, as a chevron, a bend, or the like.
Roncador (n.) Any one of several species of California sciaenoid food fishes, especially Roncador Stearnsi, which is an excellent market fish, and the red roncador (Corvina, / Johnius, saturna).
Ronchil (n.) An American marine food fish (Bathymaster signatus) of the North Pacific coast, allied to the tilefish.
Ronco (n.) See Croaker, n., 2. (a).
Rondache (n.) A circular shield carried by foot soldiers.
Ronde (n.) A kind of script in which the heavy strokes are nearly upright, giving the characters when taken together a round look.
Rondeau (n.) A species of lyric poetry so composed as to contain a refrain or repetition which recurs according to a fixed law, and a limited number of rhymes recurring also by rule.
Rondeau (n.) See Rondo, 1.
Rondel (n.) A small round tower erected at the foot of a bastion.
Rondel (n.) Same as Rondeau.
Rondel (n.) Specifically, a particular form of rondeau containing fourteen lines in two rhymes, the refrain being a repetition of the first and second lines as the seventh and eighth, and again as the thirteenth and fourteenth.
Rondeletia (n.) A tropical genus of rubiaceous shrubs which often have brilliant flowers.
Rondle (n.) A rondeau.
Rondle (n.) A round mass, plate, or disk; especially (Metal.), the crust or scale which forms upon the surface of molten metal in the crucible.
Rondo (n.) A composition, vocal or instrumental, commonly of a lively, cheerful character, in which the first strain recurs after each of the other strains.
Rondo (n.) See Rondeau, 1.
Rondure (n.) A round; a circle.
Rondure (n.) Roundness; plumpness.
Rong () imp. & p. p. of Ring.
Rong (n.) Rung (of a ladder).
Rongeur (n.) An instrument for removing small rough portions of bone.
Ronion (n.) Alt. of Ronyon
Ronyon (n.) A mangy or scabby creature.
Ronne () obs. imp. pl.
Ronnen () obs. p. p. of Renne, to run.
Ront (n.) A runt.
Rood (n.) A representation in sculpture or in painting of the cross with Christ hanging on it.
Rood (n.) A measure of five and a half yards in length; a rod; a perch; a pole.
Rood (n.) The fourth part of an acre, or forty square rods.
Roodebok (n.) The pallah.
Roody (a.) Rank in growth.
Roof (n.) The cover of any building, including the roofing (see Roofing) and all the materials and construction necessary to carry and maintain the same upon the walls or other uprights. In the case of a building with vaulted ceilings protected by an outer roof, some writers call the vault the roof, and the outer protection the roof mask. It is better, however, to consider the vault as the ceiling only, in cases where it has farther covering.
Roof (n.) That which resembles, or corresponds to, the covering or the ceiling of a house; as, the roof of a cavern; the roof of the mouth.
Roof (n.) The surface or bed of rock immediately overlying a bed of coal or a flat vein.
Roofed (imp. & p. p.) of Roof
Roofing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Roof
Roof (v. t.) To cover with a roof.
Roof (v. t.) To inclose in a house; figuratively, to shelter.
Roofer (n.) One who puts on roofs.
Roofing (n.) The act of covering with a roof.
Roofing (n.) The materials of which a roof is composed; materials for a roof.
Roofing (n.) Hence, the roof itself; figuratively, shelter.
Roofing (n.) The wedging, as of a horse or car, against the top of an underground passage.
Roofless (a.) Having no roof; as, a roofless house.
Roofless (a.) Having no house or home; shelterless; homeless.
Rooflet (n.) A small roof, covering, or shelter.
Rooftree (n.) The beam in the angle of a roof; hence, the roof itself.
Roofy (a.) Having roofs.
Rook (n.) Mist; fog. See Roke.
Rook (v. i.) To squat; to ruck.
Rook (n.) One of the four pieces placed on the corner squares of the board; a castle.
Rook (n.) A European bird (Corvus frugilegus) resembling the crow, but smaller. It is black, with purple and violet reflections. The base of the beak and the region around it are covered with a rough, scabrous skin, which in old birds is whitish. It is gregarious in its habits. The name is also applied to related Asiatic species.
Rook (n.) A trickish, rapacious fellow; a cheat; a sharper.
Rooked (imp. & p. p.) of Rook
Rooking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rook
Rook (v. t. & i.) To cheat; to defraud by cheating.
Rookeries (pl. ) of Rookery
Rookery (n.) The breeding place of a colony of rooks; also, the birds themselves.
Rookery (n.) A breeding place of other gregarious birds, as of herons, penguins, etc.
Rookery (n.) The breeding ground of seals, esp. of the fur seals.
Rookery (n.) A dilapidated building with many rooms and occupants; a cluster of dilapidated or mean buildings.
Rookery (n.) A brothel.
Rooky (a.) Misty; gloomy.
Room (n.) Unobstructed spase; space which may be occupied by or devoted to any object; compass; extent of place, great or small; as, there is not room for a house; the table takes up too much room.
Room (n.) A particular portion of space appropriated for occupancy; a place to sit, stand, or lie; a seat.
Room (n.) Especially, space in a building or ship inclosed or set apart by a partition; an apartment or chamber.
Room (n.) Place or position in society; office; rank; post; station; also, a place or station once belonging to, or occupied by, another, and vacated.
Room (n.) Possibility of admission; ability to admit; opportunity to act; fit occasion; as, to leave room for hope.
Roomed (imp. & p. p.) of Room
Rooming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Room
Room (v. i.) To occupy a room or rooms; to lodge; as, they arranged to room together.
Room (a.) Spacious; roomy.
Roomage (n.) Space; place; room.
Roomer (n.) A lodger.
Roomer (a.) At a greater distance; farther off.
Roomful (a.) Abounding with room or rooms; roomy.
Roomfuls (pl. ) of Roomful
Roomful (n.) As much or many as a room will hold; as, a roomful of men.
Roomily (adv.) Spaciously.
Roominess (n.) The quality or state of being roomy; spaciousness; as, the roominess of a hall.
Roomless (a.) Being without room or rooms.
Roommate (n.) One of twe or more occupying the same room or rooms; one who shares the occupancy of a room or rooms; a chum.
Roomsome (a.) Roomy.
Roomth (n.) Room; space.
Roomthy (a.) Roomy; spacious.
Roomy (a.) Having ample room; spacious; large; as, a roomy mansion; a roomy deck.
Roon (a. & n.) Vermilion red; red.
Roop (n.) See Roup.
Roorback (n.) Alt. of Roorbach
Roorbach (n.) A defamatory forgery or falsehood published for purposes of political intrigue.
Roosa oil () The East Indian name for grass oil. See under Grass.
Roost (n.) Roast.
Roost (v. t.) See Roust, v. t.
Roost (n.) The pole or other support on which fowls rest at night; a perch.
Roost (n.) A collection of fowls roosting together.
Roosted (imp. & p. p.) of Roost
Roosting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Roost
Roost (v. i.) To sit, rest, or sleep, as fowls on a pole, limb of a tree, etc.; to perch.
Roost (v. i.) Fig.; To lodge; to rest; to sleep.
Roostcock (n.) The male of the domestic fowl; a cock.
Rooster (n.) The male of the domestic fowl; a cock.
Root (v. i.) To turn up the earth with the snout, as swine.
Root (v. i.) Hence, to seek for favor or advancement by low arts or groveling servility; to fawn servilely.
Root (v. t.) To turn up or to dig out with the snout; as, the swine roots the earth.
Root (n.) The underground portion of a plant, whether a true root or a tuber, a bulb or rootstock, as in the potato, the onion, or the sweet flag.
Root (n.) The descending, and commonly branching, axis of a plant, increasing in length by growth at its extremity only, not divided into joints, leafless and without buds, and having for its offices to fix the plant in the earth, to supply it with moisture and soluble matters, and sometimes to serve as a reservoir of nutriment for future growth. A true root, however, may never reach the ground, but may be attached to a wall, etc., as in the ivy, or may hang loosely in the air, as in some epiphytic orchids.
Root (n.) An edible or esculent root, especially of such plants as produce a single root, as the beet, carrot, etc.; as, the root crop.
Root (n.) That which resembles a root in position or function, esp. as a source of nourishment or support; that from which anything proceeds as if by growth or development; as, the root of a tooth, a nail, a cancer, and the like.
Root (n.) An ancestor or progenitor; and hence, an early race; a stem.
Root (n.) A primitive form of speech; one of the earliest terms employed in language; a word from which other words are formed; a radix, or radical.
Root (n.) The cause or occasion by which anything is brought about; the source.
Root (n.) That factor of a quantity which when multiplied into itself will produce that quantity; thus, 3 is a root of 9, because 3 multiplied into itself produces 9; 3 is the cube root of 27.
Root (n.) The fundamental tone of any chord; the tone from whose harmonics, or overtones, a chord is composed.
Root (n.) The lowest place, position, or part.
Root (n.) The time which to reckon in making calculations.
Rooted (imp. & p. p.) of Root
Rooting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Root
Root (v. i.) To fix the root; to enter the earth, as roots; to take root and begin to grow.
Root (v. i.) To be firmly fixed; to be established.
Root (v. t.) To plant and fix deeply in the earth, or as in the earth; to implant firmly; hence, to make deep or radical; to establish; -- used chiefly in the participle; as, rooted trees or forests; rooted dislike.
Root (v. t.) To tear up by the root; to eradicate; to extirpate; -- with up, out, or away.
Rootcap (n.) A mass of parenchymatous cells which covers and protects the growing cells at the end of a root; a pileorhiza.
Rooted (a.) Having taken root; firmly implanted; fixed in the heart.
Rooter (n.) One who, or that which, roots; one that tears up by the roots.
Rootery (n.) A pile of roots, set with plants, mosses, etc., and used as an ornamental object in gardening.
Rootless (a.) Destitute of roots.
Rootlet (n.) A radicle; a little root.
Rootstock (n.) A perennial underground stem, producing leafly s/ems or flower stems from year to year; a rhizome.
Rooty (a.) Full of roots; as, rooty ground.
Ropalic (a.) See Rhopalic.
Rope (n.) A large, stout cord, usually one not less than an inch in circumference, made of strands twisted or braided together. It differs from cord, line, and string, only in its size. See Cordage.
Rope (n.) A row or string consisting of a number of things united, as by braiding, twining, etc.; as, a rope of onions.
Rope (n.) The small intestines; as, the ropes of birds.
Roped (imp. & p. p.) of Rope
Roping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rope
Rope (v. i.) To be formed into rope; to draw out or extend into a filament or thread, as by means of any glutinous or adhesive quality.
Rope (v. t.) To bind, fasten, or tie with a rope or cord; as, to rope a bale of goods.
Rope (v. t.) To connect or fasten together, as a party of mountain climbers, with a rope.
Rope (v. t.) To partition, separate, or divide off, by means of a rope, so as to include or exclude something; as, to rope in, or rope off, a plot of ground; to rope out a crowd.
Rope (v. t.) To lasso (a steer, horse).
Rope (v. t.) To draw, as with a rope; to entice; to inveigle; to decoy; as, to rope in customers or voters.
Rope (v. t.) To prevent from winning (as a horse), by pulling or curbing.
Ropeband (n.) A small piece of spun yarn or marline, used to fasten the head of the sail to the spar.
Ropedancer (n.) One who dances, walks, or performs acrobatic feats, on a rope extended through the air at some height.
Roper (n.) A maker of ropes.
Roper (n.) One who ropes goods; a packer.
Roper (n.) One fit to be hanged.
Ropery (n.) A place where ropes are made.
Ropery (n.) Tricks deserving the halter; roguery.
Rope's-end (v. t.) To punish with a rope's end.
Ropewalk (a.) A long, covered walk, or a low, level building, where ropes are manufactured.
Ropewalker (n.) A ropedancer.
Rope-yarn (n.) the yarn or thread of any stuff of which the strands of a rope are made.
Ropily (adv.) In a ropy manner; in a viscous or glutinous manner.
Ropiness (n.) Quality of being ropy; viscosity.
Ropish (a.) Somewhat ropy.
Ropy (a.) capable of being drawn into a thread, as a glutinous substance; stringy; viscous; tenacious; glutinous; as ropy sirup; ropy lees.
Roquelaure (n.) A cloak reaching about to, or just below, the knees, worn in the 18th century.
Roquet (v. t.) To hit, as another's ball, with one's own ball.
Roquet (v. i.) To hit another's ball with one's own.
Roral (a.) Of or pertaining to dew; consisting of dew; dewy.
Roration (n.) A falling of dew.
Roric (a.) Of or pertaining to dew; resembling dew; dewy.
Rorid (a.) Dewy; bedewed.
Roriferous (a.) generating or producing dew.
Rorifluent (a.) Flowing with dew.
Rorqual (n.) A very large North Atlantic whalebone whale (Physalus antiquorum, or Balaenoptera physalus). It has a dorsal fin, and strong longitudinal folds on the throat and belly. Called also razorback.
Rorulent (a.) Full of, or abounding in, dew.
Rorulent (a.) Having the surface appearing as if dusty, or covered with fine dew.
Rory (a.) Dewy.
Rosaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Rosaceae) of which the rose is the type. It includes also the plums and cherries, meadowsweet, brambles, the strawberry, the hawthorn, applies, pears, service trees, and quinces.
Rosaceous (a.) Like a rose in shape or appearance; as, a rosaceous corolla.
Rosaceous (a.) Of a pure purpish pink color.
Rosacic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid (called also lithic acid) found in certain red precipitates of urine. See Uric.
Rosalgar (n.) realgar.
Rosalia (n.) A form of melody in which a phrase or passage is successively repeated, each time a step or half step higher; a melodic sequence.
Rosaniline (n.) A complex nitrogenous base, C20H21N3O, obtained by oxidizing a mixture of aniline and toluidine, as a colorless crystalline substance which forms red salts. These salts are essential components of many of the socalled aniline dyes, as fuchsine, aniline red, etc. By extension, any one of the series of substances derived from, or related to, rosaniline proper.
Rosarian (n.) A cultivator of roses.
Rosaries (pl. ) of Rosary
Rosary (n.) A bed of roses, or place where roses grow.
Rosary (n.) A series of prayers (see Note below) arranged to be recited in order, on beads; also, a string of beads by which the prayers are counted.
Rosary (n.) A chapelet; a garland; a series or collection, as of beautiful thoughts or of literary selections.
Rosary (n.) A coin bearing the figure of a rose, fraudulently circulated in Ireland in the 13th century for a penny.
Roscid (a.) Containing, or consisting of, dew; dewy.
Roscoelite (n.) A green micaceous mineral occurring in minute scales. It is essentially a silicate of aluminia and potash containing vanadium.
Rose () imp. of Rise.
Rose (n.) A flower and shrub of any species of the genus Rosa, of which there are many species, mostly found in the morthern hemispere
Rose (n.) A knot of ribbon formed like a rose; a rose knot; a rosette, esp. one worn on a shoe.
Rose (n.) A rose window. See Rose window, below.
Rose (n.) A perforated nozzle, as of a pipe, spout, etc., for delivering water in fine jets; a rosehead; also, a strainer at the foot of a pump.
Rose (n.) The erysipelas.
Rose (n.) The card of the mariner's compass; also, a circular card with radiating lines, used in other instruments.
Rose (n.) The color of a rose; rose-red; pink.
Rose (n.) A diamond. See Rose diamond, below.
Rose (v. t.) To render rose-colored; to redden; to flush.
Rose (v. t.) To perfume, as with roses.
Roseal (a.) resembling a rose in smell or color.
Roseate (a.) Full of roses; rosy; as, roseate bowers.
Roseate (a.) resembling a rose in color or fragrance; esp., tinged with rose color; blooming; as, roseate beauty; her roseate lips.
Rosebay (n.) the oleander.
Rosebay (n.) Any shrub of the genus Rhododendron.
Rosebay (n.) An herb (Epilobium spicatum) with showy purple flowers, common in Europe and North America; -- called also great willow herb.
Rosebud (n.) The flower of a rose before it opens, or when but partially open.
Rosebush (n.) The bush or shrub which bears roses.
Rose-colored (a.) Having the color of a pink rose; rose-pink; of a delicate pink color.
Rose-colored (a.) Uncommonly beautiful; hence, extravagantly fine or pleasing; alluring; as, rose-colored anticipations.
Rose-cut (a.) Cut flat on the reverse, and with a convex face formed of triangular facets in rows; -- said of diamonds and other precious stones. See Rose diamond, under Rose. Cf. Brilliant, n.
Rosedrop (n.) A lozenge having a rose flavor.
Rosedrop (n.) A kind of earring.
Rosedrop (n.) A ruddy eruption upon the nose caused by drinking ardent spirits; a grog blossom.
Rosefinch (n.) Any one of numerous species of Asiatic finches of the genera Carpodacus, and Propasser, and allied genera, in which the male is more or less colored with rose red.
Rosefish (n.) A large marine scorpaenoid food fish (Sebastes marinus) found on the northern coasts of Europe and America. called also red perch, hemdurgan, Norway haddok, and also, erroneously, snapper, bream, and bergylt.
Rosehead (n.) See Rose, n., 4.
Rosehead (n.) A many-sided pyramidal head upon a nail; also a nail with such a head.
Roseine (n.) See Magenta.
Roselite (n.) A hydrous arsenite of cobalt, occuring in small red crystals, allied to erythrite.
Rosella (n.) A beautiful Australian parrakeet (Platycercus eximius) often kept as a cage bird. The head and back of the neck are scarlet, the throat is white, the back dark green varied with lighter green, and the breast yellow.
Roselle (n.) a malvaceous plant (Hibiscus Sabdariffa) cultivated in the east and West Indies for its fleshy calyxes, which are used for making tarts and jelly and an acid drink.
Rosemaloes (n.) The liquid storax of the East Indian Liquidambar orientalis.
Rosemary (n.) A labiate shrub (Rosmarinus officinalis) with narrow grayish leaves, growing native in the southern part of France, Spain, and Italy, also in Asia Minor and in China. It has a fragrant smell, and a warm, pungent, bitterish taste. It is used in cookery, perfumery, etc., and is an emblem of fidelity or constancy.
Rosen (a.) Consisting of roses; rosy.
Rosenmuller's organ () The parovarium.
Roseo- () A prefix (also used adjectively) signifying rose-red; specifically used to designate certain rose-red compounds (called roseo-cobaltic compounds) of cobalt with ammonia. Cf. Luteo-.
Roseola (n.) A rose-colored efflorescence upon the skin, occurring in circumscribed patches of little or no elevation and often alternately fading and reviving; also, an acute specific disease which is characterized by an eruption of this character; -- called also rose rash.
Rose-pink (a.) Having a pink color like that of the rose, or like the pigment called rose pink. See Rose pink, under Rose.
Rose-pink (a.) Disposed to clothe everything with roseate hues; hence, sentimental.
Roser (n.) A rosier; a rosebush.
Rose-red (a.) Red as a rose; specifically (Zool.), of a pure purplish red color.
Rose-rial (n.) A name of several English gold coins struck in different reigns and having having different values; a rose noble.
Roseroot (n.) A fleshy-leaved herb (Rhodiola rosea); rosewort; -- so called because the roots have the odor of roses.
Rosery (n.) A place where roses are cultivated; a nursery of roses. See Rosary, 1.
Roset (n.) A red color used by painters.
Ro-setta stone () A stone found at Rosetta, in Egypt, bearing a trilingual inscription, by aid of which, with other inscriptions, a key was obtained to the hieroglyphics of ancient Egypt.
Rosetta wood () An east Indian wood of a reddish orange color, handsomely veined with darker marks. It is occasionally used for cabinetwork.
Rosette (n.) An imitation of a rose by means of ribbon or other material, -- used as an ornament or a badge.
Rosette (n.) An ornament in the form of a rose or roundel, -much used in decoration.
Rosette (n.) A red color. See Roset.
Rosette (n.) A rose burner. See under Rose.
Rosette (n.) Any structure having a flowerlike form; especially, the group of five broad ambulacra on the upper side of the spatangoid and clypeastroid sea urchins. See Illust. of Spicule, and Sand dollar, under Sand.
Rosette (n.) A flowerlike color marking; as, the rosettes on the leopard.
Rose water () Water tinctured with roses by distillation.
Rose-water (a.) Having the odor of rose water; hence, affectedly nice or delicate; sentimental.
Rosewood (n.) A valuable cabinet wood of a dark red color, streaked and variegated with black, obtained from several tropical leguminous trees of the genera Dalbergia and Machaerium. The finest kind is from Brazil, and is said to be from the Dalbergia nigra.
Roseworm (n.) The larva of any one of several species of lepidopterous insects which feed upon the leaves, buds, or blossoms of the rose, especially Cacaecia rosaceana, which rolls up the leaves for a nest, and devours both the leaves and buds.
Rosewort (n.) Roseroot.
Rosewort (n.) Any plant nearly related to the rose.
Rosicrucian (n.) One who, in the 17th century and the early part of the 18th, claimed to belong to a secret society of philosophers deeply versed in the secrets of nature, -- the alleged society having existed, it was stated, several hundred years.
Rosicrucian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Rosicrucians, or their arts.
Rosied (a.) Decorated with roses, or with the color of roses.
Rosier (n.) A rosebush; roses, collectively.
Rosily (adv.) In a rosy manner.
Rosin (n.) The hard, amber-colored resin left after distilling off the volatile oil of turpentine; colophony.
Rosin (v. t.) To rub with rosin, as musicians rub the bow of a violin.
Rosiness (n.) The quality of being rosy.
Rosinweed (n.) The compass plant. See under Compass.
Rosinweed (n.) A name given in California to various composite plants which secrete resins or have a resinous smell.
Rosiny (a.) like rosin, or having its qualities.
Rosland (n.) heathy land; land full of heather; moorish or watery land.
Rosmarine (n.) Dew from the sea; sea dew.
Rosmarine (n.) Rosemary.
Rosmarine (n.) A fabulous sea animal which was reported to climb by means of its teeth to the tops of rocks to feed upon the dew.
Rosolic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a complex red dyestuff (called rosolic acid) which is analogous to rosaniline and aurin. It is produced by oxidizing a mixture of phenol and cresol, as a dark red amorphous mass, C20H16O3, which forms weak salts with bases, and stable ones with acids. Called also methyl aurin, and, formerly, corallin.
Ross (n.) The rough, scaly matter on the surface of the bark of trees.
Ross (v. t.) To divest of the ross, or rough, scaly surface; as, to ross bark.
Rossel (n.) Light land; rosland.
Rossel current () A portion of the southern equatorial current flowing westward from the Fiji Islands to New Guinea.
Rosselly (a.) Loose; light.
Rost (n.) See Roust.
Rostel (n.) same as Rostellum.
Rostellar (a.) Pertaining to a rostellum.
Rostellate (a.) Having a rostellum, or small beak; terminating in a beak.
Rostelliform (a.) Having the form of a rostellum, or small beak.
Rostella (pl. ) of Rostellum
Rostellum (n.) A small beaklike process or extension of some part; a small rostrum; as, the rostellum of the stigma of violets, or of the operculum of many mosses; the rostellum on the head of a tapeworm.
Roster (n.) A register or roll showing the order in which officers, enlisted men, companies, or regiments are called on to serve.
Rostra (n. pl.) See Rostrum, 2.
Rostral (a.) Of or pertaining to the beak or snout of an animal, or the beak of a ship; resembling a rostrum, esp., the rostra at Rome, or their decorations.
Rostrate (a.) Alt. of Rostrated
Rostrated (a.) Having a process resembling the beak of a bird; beaked; rostellate.
Rostrated (a.) Furnished or adorned with beaks; as, rostrated galleys.
Rostrifera (n. pl.) A division of pectinibranchiate gastropods, having the head prolonged into a snout which is not retractile.
Rostriform (a.) Having the form of a beak.
Rostrula (pl. ) of Rostrulum
Rostrulum (n.) A little rostrum, or beak, as of an insect.
Rostra (pl. ) of Rostrum
Rostrums (pl. ) of Rostrum
Rostrum (n.) The beak or head of a ship.
Rostrum (n.) The Beaks; the stage or platform in the forum where orations, pleadings, funeral harangues, etc., were delivered; -- so called because after the Latin war, it was adorned with the beaks of captured vessels; later, applied also to other platforms erected in Rome for the use of public orators.
Rostrum (n.) Hence, a stage for public speaking; the pulpit or platform occupied by an orator or public speaker.
Rostrum (n.) Any beaklike prolongation, esp. of the head of an animal, as the beak of birds.
Rostrum (n.) The beak, or sucking mouth parts, of Hemiptera.
Rostrum (n.) The snout of a gastropod mollusk. See Illust. of Littorina.
Rostrum (n.) The anterior, often spinelike, prolongation of the carapace of a crustacean, as in the lobster and the prawn.
Rostrum (n.) Same as Rostellum.
Rostrum (n.) The pipe to convey the distilling liquor into its receiver in the common alembic.
Rostrum (n.) A pair of forceps of various kinds, having a beaklike form.
Rosulate (a.) Arranged in little roselike clusters; -- said of leaves and bracts.
Rosy (superl.) Resembling a rose in color, form, or qualities; blooming; red; blushing; also, adorned with roses.
Rotted (imp. & p. p.) of Rot
Rotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rot
Rot (v. i.) To undergo a process common to organic substances by which they lose the cohesion of their parts and pass through certain chemical changes, giving off usually in some stages of the process more or less offensive odors; to become decomposed by a natural process; to putrefy; to decay.
Rot (v. i.) Figuratively: To perish slowly; to decay; to die; to become corrupt.
Rot (v. t.) To make putrid; to cause to be wholly or partially decomposed by natural processes; as, to rot vegetable fiber.
Rot (v. t.) To expose, as flax, to a process of maceration, etc., for the purpose of separating the fiber; to ret.
Rot (n.) Process of rotting; decay; putrefaction.
Rot (n.) A disease or decay in fruits, leaves, or wood, supposed to be caused by minute fungi. See Bitter rot, Black rot, etc., below.
Rot (n.) A fatal distemper which attacks sheep and sometimes other animals. It is due to the presence of a parasitic worm in the liver or gall bladder. See 1st Fluke, 2.
Rota (n.) An ecclesiastical court of Rome, called also Rota Romana, that takes cognizance of suits by appeal. It consists of twelve members.
Rota (n.) A short-lived political club established in 1659 by J.Harrington to inculcate the democratic doctrine of election of the principal officers of the state by ballot, and the annual retirement of a portion of Parliament.
Rota (n.) A species of zither, played like a guitar, used in the Middle Ages in church music; -- written also rotta.
Rotacism (n.) See Rhotacism.
Rotal (a.) Relating to wheels or to rotary motion; rotary.
Rotalite (n.) Any fossil foraminifer of the genus Rotalia, abundant in the chalk formation. See Illust. under Rhizopod.
Rotary (a.) Turning, as a wheel on its axis; pertaining to, or resembling, the motion of a wheel on its axis; rotatory; as, rotary motion.
Rotascope (n.) Same as Gyroscope, 1.
Rotate (a.) Having the parts spreading out like a wheel; wheel-shaped; as, a rotate spicule or scale; a rotate corolla, i.e., a monopetalous corolla with a flattish border, and no tube or a very short one.
Rotated (imp. & p. p.) of Rotate
Rotating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rotate
Rotate (v. i.) To turn, as a wheel, round an axis; to revolve.
Rotate (v. i.) To perform any act, function, or operation in turn, to hold office in turn; as, to rotate in office.
Rotate (v. i.) To cause to turn round or revolve, as a wheel around an axle.
Rotate (v. i.) To cause to succeed in turn; esp., to cause to succeed some one, or to be succeeded by some one, in office.
Rotated (a.) Turned round, as a wheel; also, wheel-shaped; rotate.
Rotation (n.) The act of turning, as a wheel or a solid body on its axis, as distinguished from the progressive motion of a revolving round another body or a distant point; thus, the daily turning of the earth on its axis is a rotation; its annual motion round the sun is a revolution.
Rotation (n.) Any return or succesion in a series.
Rotation (a.) Pertaining to, or resulting from, rotation; of the nature of, or characterized by, rotation; as, rotational velocity.
Rotative (a.) turning, as a wheel; rotary; rotational.
Rotator (n.) that which gives a rotary or rolling motion, as a muscle which partially rotates or turns some part on its axis.
Rotator (n.) A revolving reverberatory furnace.
Rotatoria (n. pl.) Same as Rotifera.
Rotatory (a.) Turning as on an axis; rotary.
Rotatory (a.) Going in a circle; following in rotation or succession; as, rotatory assembles.
Rotatory (a.) Producing rotation of the plane of polarization; as, the rotatory power of bodies on light. See the Note under polarization.
Rotatory (n.) A rotifer.
Rotche (n.) A very small arctic sea bird (Mergulus alle, or Alle alle) common on both coasts of the Atlantic in winter; -- called also little auk, dovekie, rotch, rotchie, and sea dove.
Rotchet (n.) The European red gurnard (Trigla pini).
Rote (n.) A root.
Rote (n.) A kind of guitar, the notes of which were produced by a small wheel or wheel-like arrangement; an instrument similar to the hurdy-gurdy.
Rote (n.) The noise produced by the surf of the sea dashing upon the shore. See Rut.
Rote (n.) A frequent repetition of forms of speech without attention to the meaning; mere repetition; as, to learn rules by rote.
Roted (imp. & p. p.) of Rote
Roting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rote
Rote (v. t.) To learn or repeat by rote.
Rote (v. i.) To go out by rotation or succession; to rotate.
Rotella (n.) Any one of numerous species of small, polished, brightcolored gastropods of the genus Rotella, native of tropical seas.
Rotgut (n.) Bad small beer.
Rotgut (n.) Any bad spirituous liquor, especially when adulterated so as to be very deleterious.
Rother (a.) Bovine.
Rother (n.) A bovine beast.
Rother (n.) A rudder.
Rotifer (n.) One of the Rotifera. See Illust. in Appendix.
Rotifera (n.) An order of minute worms which usually have one or two groups of vibrating cilia on the head, which, when in motion, often give an appearance of rapidly revolving wheels. The species are very numerous in fresh waters, and are very diversified in form and habits.
Rotiform (a.) Wheel-shaped; as, rotiform appendages.
Rotiform (a.) Same as Rotate.
Rotta (n.) See Rota.
Rotten (a.) Having rotted; putrid; decayed; as, a rotten apple; rotten meat.
Rotten (a.) Offensive to the smell; fetid; disgusting.
Rotten (a.) Not firm or trusty; unsound; defective; treacherous; unsafe; as, a rotten plank, bone, stone.
Rotula (n.) The patella, or kneepan.
Rotular (a.) Of or pertaining to the rotula, or kneepan.
Rotund (a.) Round; circular; spherical.
Rotund (a.) Hence, complete; entire.
Rotund (a.) Orbicular, or nearly so.
Rotund (n.) A rotunda.
Rotunda (a.) A round building; especially, one that is round both on the outside and inside, like the Pantheon at Rome. Less properly, but very commonly, used for a large round room; as, the rotunda of the Capitol at Washington.
Rotundate (a.) Rounded; especially, rounded at the end or ends, or at the corners.
Rotundifolious (a.) Having round leaves.
Rotundity (n.) The state or quality of being rotu/; roundness; sphericity; circularity.
Rotundity (n.) Hence, completeness; entirety; roundness.
Rotundness (n.) Roundness; rotundity.
Rotundo (n.) See Rotunda.
Roturer (n.) A roturier.
Roturier (n.) A person who is not of noble birth; specif., a freeman who during the prevalence of feudalism held allodial land.
Roty (v. t.) To make rotten.
Rouble (n.) A coin. See Ruble.
Rouche (n.) See Ruche.
Roue (n.) One devoted to a life of sensual pleasure; a debauchee; a rake.
Rouet (n.) A small wheel formerly fixed to the pan of firelocks for discharging them.
Rouge (a.) red.
Rouge (n.) A red amorphous powder consisting of ferric oxide. It is used in polishing glass, metal, or gems, and as a cosmetic, etc. Called also crocus, jeweler's rouge, etc.
Rouge (n.) A cosmetic used for giving a red color to the cheeks or lips. The best is prepared from the dried flowers of the safflower, but it is often made from carmine.
Rouged (imp. & p. p.) of Rouge
Rouging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rouge
Rouge (v. i.) To paint the face or cheeks with rouge.
Rouge (v. t.) To tint with rouge; as, to rouge the face or the cheeks.
Rougecroix (n.) One of the four pursuivants of the English college of arms.
Rouge dragon (n.) One of the four pursuivants of the English college of arms.
Rough (n.) Having inequalities, small ridges, or points, on the surface; not smooth or plain; as, a rough board; a rough stone; rough cloth.
Rough (n.) Not level; having a broken surface; uneven; -- said of a piece of land, or of a road.
Rough (n.) Not polished; uncut; -- said of a gem; as, a rough diamond.
Rough (n.) Tossed in waves; boisterous; high; -- said of a sea or other piece of water.
Rough (n.) Marked by coarseness; shaggy; ragged; disordered; -- said of dress, appearance, or the like; as, a rough coat.
Rough (n.) Hence, figuratively, lacking refinement, gentleness, or polish.
Rough (n.) Not courteous or kind; harsh; rude; uncivil; as, a rough temper.
Rough (n.) Marked by severity or violence; harsh; hard; as, rough measures or actions.
Rough (n.) Loud and hoarse; offensive to the ear; harsh; grating; -- said of sound, voice, and the like; as, a rough tone; rough numbers.
Rough (n.) Austere; harsh to the taste; as, rough wine.
Rough (n.) Tempestuous; boisterous; stormy; as, rough weather; a rough day.
Rough (n.) Hastily or carelessly done; wanting finish; incomplete; as, a rough estimate; a rough draught.
Rough (n.) Produced offhand.
Rough (n.) Boisterous weather.
Rough (n.) A rude fellow; a coarse bully; a rowdy.
Rough (adv.) In a rough manner; rudely; roughly.
Rough (v. t.) To render rough; to roughen.
Rough (v. t.) To break in, as a horse, especially for military purposes.
Rough (v. t.) To cut or make in a hasty, rough manner; -- with out; as, to rough out a carving, a sketch.
Roughcast (v. t.) To form in its first rudiments, without revision, correction, or polish.
Roughcast (v. t.) To mold without nicety or elegance; to form with asperities and inequalities.
Roughcast (v. t.) To plaster with a mixture of lime and shells or pebbles; as, to roughcast a building.
Roughcast (n.) A rude model; the rudimentary, unfinished form of a thing.
Roughcast (n.) A kind of plastering made of lime, with a mixture of shells or pebbles, used for covering buildings.
Roughcaster (n.) One who roughcasts.
Roughdraw (v. t.) To draw or delineate rapidly and by way of a first sketch.
Roughdry (v. t.) in laundry work, to dry without smoothing or ironing.
Roughened (imp. & p. p.) of Roughen
Roughening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Roughen
Roughen (v. t.) To make rough.
Roughen (v. i.) To grow or become rough.
Rough-footed (a.) Feather-footed; as, a rough-footed dove.
Rough-grained (a.) Having a rough grain or fiber; hence, figuratively, having coarse traits of character; not polished; brisque.
Roughhead (n.) The redfin.
Roughhew (v. t.) To hew coarsely, without smoothing; as, to roughhew timber.
Roughhew (v. t.) To give the first form or shape to; to form rudely; to shape approximately and rudely; to roughcast.
Roughhewer (n.) One who roughhews.
Roughhewn (a.) Hewn coarsely without smoothing; unfinished; not polished.
Roughhewn (a.) Of coarse manners; rude; uncultivated; rough-grained.
Roughing-in (n.) The first coat of plaster laid on brick; also, the process of applying it.
Roughings (n. pl.) Rowen.
Roughish (a.) Somewhat rough.
Roughleg (n.) Any one of several species of large hawks of the genus Archibuteo, having the legs feathered to the toes. Called also rough-legged hawk, and rough-legged buzzard.
Rough-legged (a.) Having the legs covered with feathers; -- said of a bird.
Roughly (adv.) In a rough manner; unevenly; harshly; rudely; severely; austerely.
Roughness (n.) The quality or state of being rough.
Roughrider (n.) One who breaks horses; especially (Mil.), a noncommissioned officer in the British cavalry, whose duty is to assist the riding master.
Roughscuff (n.) A rough, coarse fellow; collectively, the lowest class of the people; the rabble; the riffraff.
Roughsetter (n.) A mason who builds rough stonework.
Roughshod (a.) Shod with shoes armed with points or calks; as, a roughshod horse.
Roughstrings (n. pl.) Pieces of undressed timber put under the steps of a wooden stair for their support.
Rought () imp. of Reach.
Rought () imp. of Reck, to care.
Roughtail (n.) Any species of small ground snakes of the family Uropeltidae; -- so called from their rough tails.
Roughwork (v. t.) To work over coarsely, without regard to nicety, smoothness, or finish.
Roughwrought (a.) Wrought in a rough, unfinished way; worked over coarsely.
Rouk (v. i.) See 5th Ruck, and Roke.
Roulade (n.) A smoothly running passage of short notes (as semiquavers, or sixteenths) uniformly grouped, sung upon one long syllable, as in Handel's oratorios.
Rouleaux (pl. ) of Rouleau
Rouleaus (pl. ) of Rouleau
Rouleau (n.) A little roll; a roll of coins put up in paper, or something resembling such a roll.
Roulette (n.) A game of chance, in which a small ball is made to move round rapidly on a circle divided off into numbered red and black spaces, the one on which it stops indicating the result of a variety of wagers permitted by the game.
Roulette (n.) A small toothed wheel used by engravers to roll over a plate in order to order to produce rows of dots.
Roulette (n.) A similar wheel used to roughen the surface of a plate, as in making alterations in a mezzotint.
Roulette (n.) the curve traced by any point in the plane of a given curve when the latter rolls, without sliding, over another fixed curve. See Cycloid, and Epycycloid.
Rouly-pouly (n.) See Rolly-pooly.
Roun (v. i. & t.) Alt. of Rown
Rown (v. i. & t.) To whisper.
Rounce (n.) The handle by which the bed of a hand press, holding the form of type, etc., is run in under the platen and out again; -- sometimes applied to the whole apparatus by which the form is moved under the platen.
Rounceval (a.) Large; strong; -- from the gigantic bones shown at Roncesvalles, and alleged to be those of old heroes.
Rounceval (n.) A giant; anything large; a kind of pea called also marrowfat.
Rouncy (n.) A common hackney horse; a nag.
Round (v. i. & t.) To whisper.
Round (a.) Having every portion of the surface or of the circumference equally distant from the center; spherical; circular; having a form approaching a spherical or a circular shape; orbicular; globular; as, a round ball.
Round (a.) Having the form of a cylinder; cylindrical; as, the barrel of a musket is round.
Round (a.) Having a curved outline or form; especially, one like the arc of a circle or an ellipse, or a portion of the surface of a sphere; rotund; bulging; protuberant; not angular or pointed; as, a round arch; round hills.
Round (a.) Full; complete; not broken; not fractional; approximately in even units, tens, hundreds, thousands, etc.; -- said of numbers.
Round (a.) Not inconsiderable; large; hence, generous; free; as, a round price.
Round (a.) Uttered or emitted with a full tone; as, a round voice; a round note.
Round (a.) Modified, as a vowel, by contraction of the lip opening, making the opening more or less round in shape; rounded; labialized; labial. See Guide to Pronunciation, / 11.
Round (a.) Outspoken; plain and direct; unreserved; unqualified; not mincing; as, a round answer; a round oath.
Round (a.) Full and smoothly expanded; not defective or abrupt; finished; polished; -- said of style, or of authors with reference to their style.
Round (a.) Complete and consistent; fair; just; -- applied to conduct.
Round (n.) Anything round, as a circle, a globe, a ring. "The golden round" [the crown].
Round (n.) A series of changes or events ending where it began; a series of like events recurring in continuance; a cycle; a periodical revolution; as, the round of the seasons; a round of pleasures.
Round (n.) A course of action or conduct performed by a number of persons in turn, or one after another, as if seated in a circle.
Round (n.) A series of duties or tasks which must be performed in turn, and then repeated.
Round (n.) A circular dance.
Round (n.) That which goes round a whole circle or company; as, a round of applause.
Round (n.) Rotation, as in office; succession.
Round (n.) The step of a ladder; a rundle or rung; also, a crosspiece which joins and braces the legs of a chair.
Round (n.) A course ending where it began; a circuit; a beat; especially, one freguently or regulary traversed; also, the act of traversing a circuit; as, a watchman's round; the rounds of the postman.
Round (n.) A walk performed by a guard or an officer round the rampart of a garrison, or among sentinels, to see that the sentinels are faithful and all things safe; also, the guard or officer, with his attendants, who performs this duty; -- usually in the plural.
Round (n.) A general discharge of firearms by a body of troops in which each soldier fires once.
Round (n.) Ammunition for discharging a piece or pieces once; as, twenty rounds of ammunition were given out.
Round (n.) A short vocal piece, resembling a catch in which three or four voices follow each other round in a species of canon in the unison.
Round (n.) The time during which prize fighters or boxers are in actual contest without an intermission, as prescribed by their rules; a bout.
Round (n.) A brewer's vessel in which the fermentation is concluded, the yeast escaping through the bunghole.
Round (n.) A vessel filled, as for drinking.
Round (n.) An assembly; a group; a circle; as, a round of politicians.
Round (n.) See Roundtop.
Round (n.) Same as Round of beef, below.
Round (adv.) On all sides; around.
Round (adv.) Circularly; in a circular form or manner; by revolving or reversing one's position; as, to turn one's head round; a wheel turns round.
Round (adv.) In circumference; as, a ball is ten inches round.
Round (adv.) From one side or party to another; as to come or turn round, -- that is, to change sides or opinions.
Round (adv.) By or in a circuit; by a course longer than the direct course; back to the starting point.
Round (adv.) Through a circle, as of friends or houses.
Round (adv.) Roundly; fully; vigorously.
Round (prep.) On every side of, so as to encompass or encircle; around; about; as, the people atood round him; to go round the city; to wind a cable round a windlass.
Rounded (imp. & p. p.) of Round
Rounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Round
Round (v. t.) To make circular, spherical, or cylindrical; to give a round or convex figure to; as, to round a silver coin; to round the edges of anything.
Round (v. t.) To surround; to encircle; to encompass.
Round (v. t.) To bring to fullness or completeness; to complete; hence, to bring to a fit conclusion.
Round (v. t.) To go round wholly or in part; to go about (a corner or point); as, to round a corner; to round Cape Horn.
Round (v. t.) To make full, smooth, and flowing; as, to round periods in writing.
Round (v. i.) To grow round or full; hence, to attain to fullness, completeness, or perfection.
Round (v. i.) To go round, as a guard.
Round (v. i.) To go or turn round; to wheel about.
Roundabout (a.) Circuitous; going round; indirect; as, roundabout speech.
Roundabout (a.) Encircling; enveloping; comprehensive.
Roundabout (n.) A horizontal wheel or frame, commonly with wooden horses, etc., on which children ride; a merry-go-round.
Roundabout (n.) A dance performed in a circle.
Roundabout (n.) A short, close jacket worn by boys, sailors, etc.
Roundabout (n.) A state or scene of constant change, or of recurring labor and vicissitude.
Roundaboutness (n.) The quality of being roundabout; circuitousness.
Round-arm (a.) Applied to the method delivering the ball in bowling, by swinging the arm horizontally.
Round-backed (a.) Having a round back or shoulders; round-shouldered.
Rounded (a.) Modified by contraction of the lip opening; labialized; labial. See Guide to Pronunciation, / 11.
Roundel (a.) A rondelay.
Roundel (a.) Anything having a round form; a round figure; a circle.
Roundel (a.) A small circular shield, sometimes not more than a foot in diameter, used by soldiers in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries.
Roundel (a.) A circular spot; a sharge in the form of a small circle.
Roundel (a.) A bastion of a circular form.
Roundelay (n.) See Rondeau, and Rondel.
Roundelay (n.) A tune in which a simple strain is often repeated; a simple rural strain which is short and lively.
Roundelay (n.) A dance in a circle.
Roundelay (n.) Anything having a round form; a roundel.
Rounder (n.) One who rounds; one who comes about frequently or regularly.
Rounder (n.) A tool for making an edge or surface round.
Rounder (n.) An English game somewhat resembling baseball; also, another English game resembling the game of fives, but played with a football.
Roundfish (n.) Any ordinary market fish, exclusive of flounders, sole, halibut, and other flatfishes.
Roundfish (n.) A lake whitefish (Coregonus quadrilateralis), less compressed than the common species. It is very abundant in British America and Alaska.
Roundhead (n.) A nickname for a Puritan. See Roundheads, the, in the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction.
Roundheaded (a.) Having a round head or top.
Roundhouse (n.) A constable's prison; a lockup, watch-house, or station house.
Roundhouse (n.) A cabin or apartament on the after part of the quarter-deck, having the poop for its roof; -- sometimes called the coach.
Roundhouse (n.) A privy near the bow of the vessel.
Roundhouse (n.) A house for locomotive engines, built circularly around a turntable.
Rounding (a.) Round or nearly round; becoming round; roundish.
Rounding (n.) Small rope, or strands of rope, or spun yarn, wound round a rope to keep it from chafing; -- called also service.
Rounding (n.) Modifying a speech sound by contraction of the lip opening; labializing; labialization. See Guide to Pronunciation, / 11.
Roundish (a.) Somewhat round; as, a roundish seed; a roundish figure.
Roundlet (n.) A little circle.
Roundly (adv.) In a round form or manner.
Roundly (adv.) Openly; boldly; peremptorily; plumply.
Roundly (adv.) Briskly; with speed.
Roundly (adv.) Completely; vigorously; in earnest.
Roundly (adv.) Without regard to detail; in gross; comprehensively; generally; as, to give numbers roundly.
Roundness (n.) The quality or state of being round in shape; as, the roundness of the globe, of the orb of the sun, of a ball, of a bowl, a column, etc.
Roundness (n.) Fullness; smoothness of flow; as, the roundness of a period; the roundness of a note; roundness of tone.
Roundness (n.) Openess; plainess; boldness; positiveness; as, the roundness of an assertion.
Roundridge (v. t.) To form into round ridges by plowing.
Round-shouldered (a.) Having the shoulders stooping or projecting; round-backed.
Roundsmen (pl. ) of Roundsman
Roundsman (n.) A patrolman; also, a policeman who acts as an inspector over the rounds of the patrolmen.
Roundtop (n.) A top; a platform at a masthead; -- so called because formerly round in shape.
Round-up (n.) The act of collecting or gathering together scattered cattle by riding around them and driving them in.
Roundure (n.) Roundness; a round or circle.
Roundworm (n.) A nematoid worm.
Roundy (a.) Round.
Roup (v. i. & t.) To cry or shout; hence, to sell by auction.
Roup (n.) An outcry; hence, a sale of gods by auction.
Roup (n.) A disease in poultry. See Pip.
Rousant (a.) Rising; -- applied to a bird in the attitude of rising; also, sometmes, to a bird in profile with wings addorsed.
Rouse (v. i. & t.) To pull or haul strongly and all together, as upon a rope, without the assistance of mechanical appliances.
Rouse (n.) A bumper in honor of a toast or health.
Rouse (n.) A carousal; a festival; a drinking frolic.
Roused (imp. & p. p.) of Rouse
Rousing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rouse
Rouse (v.) To cause to start from a covert or lurking place; as, to rouse a deer or other animal of the chase.
Rouse (v.) To wake from sleep or repose; as, to rouse one early or suddenly.
Rouse (v.) To excite to lively thought or action from a state of idleness, languor, stupidity, or indifference; as, to rouse the faculties, passions, or emotions.
Rouse (v.) To put in motion; to stir up; to agitate.
Rouse (v.) To raise; to make erect.
Rouse (v. i.) To get or start up; to rise.
Rouse (v. i.) To awake from sleep or repose.
Rouse (v. i.) To be exited to thought or action from a state of indolence or inattention.
Rouser (n.) One who, or that which, rouses.
Rouser (n.) Something very exciting or great.
Rouser (n.) A stirrer in a copper for boiling wort.
Rousing (a.) Having power to awaken or excite; exciting.
Rousing (a.) Very great; violent; astounding; as, a rousing fire; a rousing lie.
Rousingly (adv.) In a rousing manner.
Roussette (n.) A fruit bat, especially the large species (Pieropus vulgaris) inhabiting the islands of the Indian ocean. It measures about a yard across the expanded wings.
Roussette (n.) Any small shark of the genus Scyllium; -- called also dogfish. See Dogfish.
Roust (v. t.) To rouse; to disturb; as, to roust one out.
Roust (n.) A strong tide or current, especially in a narrow channel.
Roustabout (n.) A laborer, especially a deck hand, on a river steamboat, who moves the cargo, loads and unloads wood, and the like; in an opprobrious sense, a shiftless vagrant who lives by chance jobs.
Rout (v. i.) To roar; to bellow; to snort; to snore loudly.
Rout (n.) A bellowing; a shouting; noise; clamor; uproar; disturbance; tumult.
Rout (v. t.) To scoop out with a gouge or other tool; to furrow.
Rout (v. i.) To search or root in the ground, as a swine.
Rout (n.) A troop; a throng; a company; an assembly; especially, a traveling company or throng.
Rout (n.) A disorderly and tumultuous crowd; a mob; hence, the rabble; the herd of common people.
Rout (n.) The state of being disorganized and thrown into confusion; -- said especially of an army defeated, broken in pieces, and put to flight in disorder or panic; also, the act of defeating and breaking up an army; as, the rout of the enemy was complete.
Rout (n.) A disturbance of the peace by persons assembled together with intent to do a thing which, if executed, would make them rioters, and actually making a motion toward the executing thereof.
Rout (n.) A fashionable assembly, or large evening party.
Routed (imp. & p. p.) of Rout
Routing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rout
Rout (v. t.) To break the ranks of, as troops, and put them to flight in disorder; to put to rout.
Rout (v. i.) To assemble in a crowd, whether orderly or disorderly; to collect in company.
Route (n.) The course or way which is traveled or passed, or is to be passed; a passing; a course; a road or path; a march.
Router (n.) A plane made like a spokeshave, for working the inside edges of circular sashes.
Router (n.) A plane with a hooked tool protruding far below the sole, for smoothing the bottom of a cavity.
Routhe (n.) Ruth; sorrow.
Routinary (a.) Involving, or pertaining to, routine; ordinary; customary.
Routine (n.) A round of business, amusement, or pleasure, daily or frequently pursued; especially, a course of business or offical duties regularly or frequently returning.
Routine (n.) Any regular course of action or procedure rigidly adhered to by the mere force of habit.
Routinism (n.) the practice of doing things with undiscriminating, mechanical regularity.
Routinist (n.) One who habituated to a routine.
Routish (a.) Uproarious; riotous.
Routously (adv.) With that violation of law called a rout. See 5th Rout, 4.
Roux (n.) A thickening, made of flour, for soups and gravies.
Rove (v. t.) To draw through an eye or aperture.
Rove (v. t.) To draw out into flakes; to card, as wool.
Rove (v. t.) To twist slightly; to bring together, as slivers of wool or cotton, and twist slightly before spinning.
Rove (n.) A copper washer upon which the end of a nail is clinched in boat building.
Rove (n.) A roll or sliver of wool or cotton drawn out and slighty twisted, preparatory to further process; a roving.
Roved (imp. & p. p.) of Rove
Roving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rove
Rove (v. i.) To practice robbery on the seas; to wander about on the seas in piracy.
Rove (v. i.) Hence, to wander; to ramble; to rauge; to go, move, or pass without certain direction in any manner, by sailing, walking, riding, flying, or otherwise.
Rove (v. i.) To shoot at rovers; hence, to shoot at an angle of elevation, not at point-blank (rovers usually being beyond the point-blank range).
Rove (v. t.) To wander over or through.
Rove (v. t.) To plow into ridges by turning the earth of two furrows together.
Rove (n.) The act of wandering; a ramble.
Rover (v. i.) One who practices robbery on the seas; a pirate.
Rover (v. i.) One who wanders about by sea or land; a wanderer; a rambler.
Rover (v. i.) Hence, a fickle, inconstant person.
Rover (v. i.) A ball which has passed through all the hoops and would go out if it hit the stake but is continued in play; also, the player of such a ball.
Rover (v. i.) Casual marks at uncertain distances.
Rover (v. i.) A sort of arrow.
Roving (n.) The operatin of forming the rove, or slightly twisted sliver or roll of wool or cotton, by means of a machine for the purpose, called a roving frame, or roving machine.
Roving (n.) A roll or sliver of wool or cotton drawn out and slightly twisted; a rove. See 2d Rove, 2.
Roving (n.) The act of one who roves or wanders.
Rovingly (adv.) In a wandering manner.
Rovingness (n.) The state of roving.
Row (a. & adv.) Rough; stern; angry.
Row (n.) A noisy, turbulent quarrel or disturbance; a brawl.
Row (n.) A series of persons or things arranged in a continued line; a line; a rank; a file; as, a row of trees; a row of houses or columns.
Rowed (imp. & p. p.) of Row
Rowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Row
Row (v. t.) To propel with oars, as a boat or vessel, along the surface of water; as, to row a boat.
Row (v. t.) To transport in a boat propelled with oars; as, to row the captain ashore in his barge.
Row (v. i.) To use the oar; as, to row well.
Row (v. i.) To be moved by oars; as, the boat rows easily.
Row (n.) The act of rowing; excursion in a rowboat.
Rowable (a.) That may be rowed, or rowed upon.
Rowan (n.) Rowan tree.
Rowan tree () A european tree (Pyrus aucuparia) related to the apple, but with pinnate leaves and flat corymbs of small white flowers followed by little bright red berries. Called also roan tree, and mountain ash. The name is also applied to two American trees of similar habit (Pyrus Americana, and P. sambucifolia).
Rowboat (n.) A boat designed to be propelled by oars instead of sails.
Rowdies (pl. ) of Rowdy
Rowdy (n.) One who engages in rows, or noisy quarrels; a ruffianly fellow.
Rowdydow (n.) Hubbub; uproar.
Rowdydowdy (a.) Uproarious.
Rowdyish (a.) Resembling a rowdy in temper or conduct; characteristic of a rowdy.
Rowdyism (n.) the conduct of a rowdy.
Rowed (a.) Formed into a row, or rows; having a row, or rows; as, a twelve-rowed ear of corn.
Rowel (n.) The little wheel of a spur, with sharp points.
Rowel (n.) A little flat ring or wheel on horses' bits.
Rowel (n.) A roll of hair, silk, etc., passed through the flesh of horses, answering to a seton in human surgery.
Roweled (imp. & p. p.) of Rowel
Rowelled () of Rowel
Roweling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rowel
Rowelling () of Rowel
Rowel (v. t.) To insert a rowel, or roll of hair or silk, into (as the flesh of a horse).
Rowel bone () See rewel bone.
Rowen (n.) A stubble field left unplowed till late in the autumn, that it may be cropped by cattle.
Rowen (n.) The second growth of grass in a season; aftermath.
Rower (n.) One who rows with an oar.
Rowett (n.) See Rowen.
Rowlock (n.) A contrivance or arrangement serving as a fulcrum for an oar in rowing. It consists sometimes of a notch in the gunwale of a boat, sometimes of a pair of pins between which the oar rests on the edge of the gunwale, sometimes of a single pin passing through the oar, or of a metal fork or stirrup pivoted in the gunwale and suporting the oar.
Rown (v. i. & t.) see Roun.
Rowport (n.) An opening in the side of small vessels of war, near the surface of the water, to facilitate rowing in calm weather.
Roxburgh (n.) A style of bookbinding in which the back is plain leather, the sides paper or cloth, the top gilt-edged, but the front and bottom left uncut.
Roy (n.) A king.
Roy (a.) Royal.
Royal (a.) Kingly; pertaining to the crown or the sovereign; suitable for a king or queen; regal; as, royal power or prerogative; royal domains; the royal family; royal state.
Royal (a.) Noble; generous; magnificent; princely.
Royal (a.) Under the patronage of royality; holding a charter granted by the sovereign; as, the Royal Academy of Arts; the Royal Society.
Royal (n.) Printing and writing papers of particular sizes. See under paper, n.
Royal (n.) A small sail immediately above the topgallant sail.
Royal (n.) One of the upper or distal branches of an antler, as the third and fourth tynes of the antlers of a stag.
Royal (n.) A small mortar.
Royal (n.) One of the soldiers of the first regiment of foot of the British army, formerly called the Royals, and supposed to be the oldest regular corps in Europe; -- now called the Royal Scots.
Royal (n.) An old English coin. See Rial.
Royalet (n.) A petty or powerless king.
Royalism (n.) the principles or conduct of royalists.
Royalist (n.) An adherent of a king (as of Charles I. in England, or of the Bourbons in france); one attached to monarchical government.
Royalization (n.) The act of making loyal to a king.
Royalize (v. t.) to make royal.
Royally (adv.) In a royal or kingly manner; like a king; as becomes a king.
Royalties (pl. ) of Royalty
Royalty (n.) The state of being royal; the condition or quality of a royal person; kingship; kingly office; sovereignty.
Royalty (n.) The person of a king or sovereign; majesty; as, in the presence of royalty.
Royalty (n.) An emblem of royalty; -- usually in the plural, meaning regalia.
Royalty (n.) Kingliness; spirit of regal authority.
Royalty (n.) Domain; province; sphere.
Royalty (n.) That which is due to a sovereign, as a seigniorage on gold and silver coined at the mint, metals taken from mines, etc.; the tax exacted in lieu of such share; imperiality.
Royalty (n.) A share of the product or profit (as of a mine, forest, etc.), reserved by the owner for permitting another to use the property.
Royalty (n.) Hence (Com.), a duty paid by a manufacturer to the owner of a patent or a copyright at a certain rate for each article manufactured; or, a percentage paid to the owner of an article by one who hires the use of it.
Royne (v. t.) To bite; to gnaw.
Roynish (a.) Mangy; scabby; hence, mean; paltry; troublesome.
Royster (n.) Alt. of Roysterer
Roysterer (n.) same as Roister, Roisterer.
Royston crow () See Hooded crow, under Hooded.
Roytelet (n.) A little king.
Roytish (a.) Wild; irregular.
Rubbed (imp. & p. p.) of Rub
Rubbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rub
Rub (v. t.) To subject (a body) to the action of something moving over its surface with pressure and friction, especially to the action of something moving back and forth; as, to rub the flesh with the hand; to rub wood with sandpaper.
Rub (v. t.) To move over the surface of (a body) with pressure and friction; to graze; to chafe; as, the boat rubs the ground.
Rub (v. t.) To cause (a body) to move with pressure and friction along a surface; as, to rub the hand over the body.
Rub (v. t.) To spread a substance thinly over; to smear.
Rub (v. t.) To scour; to burnish; to polish; to brighten; to cleanse; -- often with up or over; as, to rub up silver.
Rub (v. t.) To hinder; to cross; to thwart.
Rub (v. i.) To move along the surface of a body with pressure; to grate; as, a wheel rubs against the gatepost.
Rub (v. i.) To fret; to chafe; as, to rub upon a sore.
Rub (v. i.) To move or pass with difficulty; as, to rub through woods, as huntsmen; to rub through the world.
Rub (n.) The act of rubbing; friction.
Rub (n.) That which rubs; that which tends to hinder or obstruct motion or progress; hindrance; obstruction, an impediment; especially, a difficulty or obstruction hard to overcome; a pinch.
Rub (n.) Inequality of surface, as of the ground in the game of bowls; unevenness.
Rub (n.) Something grating to the feelings; sarcasm; joke; as, a hard rub.
Rub (n.) Imperfection; failing; fault.
Rub (n.) A chance.
Rub (n.) A stone, commonly flat, used to sharpen cutting tools; a whetstone; -- called also rubstone.
Ruba-dub (n.) The sound of a drum when continuously beaten; hence, a clamorous, repeated sound; a clatter.
Rubato (a.) Robbed; borrowed.
Rubbage (n.) Rubbish.
Rubber (n.) One who, or that which, rubs.
Rubber (n.) An instrument or thing used in rubbing, polishing, or cleaning.
Rubber (n.) A coarse file, or the rough part of a file.
Rubber (n.) A whetstone; a rubstone.
Rubber (n.) An eraser, usually made of caoutchouc.
Rubber (n.) The cushion of an electrical machine.
Rubber (n.) One who performs massage, especially in a Turkish bath.
Rubber (n.) Something that chafes or annoys; hence, something that grates on the feelings; a sarcasm; a rub.
Rubber (n.) In some games, as whist, the odd game, as the third or the fifth, when there is a tie between the players; as, to play the rubber; also, a contest determined by the winning of two out of three games; as, to play a rubber of whist.
Rubber (n.) India rubber; caoutchouc.
Rubber (n.) An overshoe made of India rubber.
Rubbidge (n.) Rubbish.
Rubbing () a. & n. from Rub, v.
Rubbish (n.) Waste or rejected matter; anything worthless; valueless stuff; trash; especially, fragments of building materials or fallen buildings; ruins; debris.
Rubbish (a.) Of or pertaining to rubbish; of the quality of rubbish; trashy.
Rubble (n.) Water-worn or rough broken stones; broken bricks, etc., used in coarse masonry, or to fill up between the facing courses of walls.
Rubble (n.) Rough stone as it comes from the quarry; also, a quarryman's term for the upper fragmentary and decomposed portion of a mass of stone; brash.
Rubble (n.) A mass or stratum of fragments or rock lying under the alluvium, and derived from the neighboring rock.
Rubble (n.) The whole of the bran of wheat before it is sorted into pollard, bran, etc.
Rubblestone (n.) See Rubble, 1 and 2.
Rubblework (n.) Masonry constructed of unsquared stones that are irregular in size and shape.
Rubbly (a.) Relating to, or containing, rubble.
Rubedinous (a.) Reddish.
Rubefacient (a.) Making red.
Rubefacient (n.) An external application which produces redness of the skin.
Rubefaction (n.) The act or process of making red.
Rubelet (n.) A little ruby.
Rubella (n.) An acute specific disease with a dusky red cutaneous eruption resembling that of measles, but unattended by catarrhal symptoms; -- called also German measles.
Rubelle (n.) A red color used in enameling.
Rubellite (n.) A variety of tourmaline varying in color from a pale rose to a deep ruby, and containing lithium.
Rubeola (n.) the measles.
Rubeola (n.) Rubella.
Ruberythrinic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid extracted from madder root. It is a yellow crystalline substance from which alizarin is obtained.
Rubescence (n.) The quality or state of being rubescent; a reddening; a flush.
Rubescent (a.) Growing or becoming red; tending to redness.
Rubiaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a very large natural order of plants (Rubiaceae) named after the madder (Rubia tinctoria), and including about three hundred and seventy genera and over four thousand species. Among them are the coffee tree, the trees yielding peruvian bark and quinine, the madder, the quaker ladies, and the trees bearing the edible fruits called genipap and Sierre Leone peach, besides many plants noted for the beauty or the fragrance of their blossoms.
Rubiacin (n.) A substance found in madder root, and probably identical with ruberythrinic acid.
Rubian (n.) One of several color-producing glycosides found in madder root.
Rubianic (a.) pertaining to, or derived from, rubian; specifically, designating an acid called also ruberythrinic acid.
Ru bible (n.) A ribble.
Rubican (a.) Colored a prevailing red, bay, or black, with flecks of white or gray especially on the flanks; -- said of horses.
Rubicelle (n.) A variety of ruby of a yellowish red color, from Brazil.
Rubicon (n.) A small river which separated Italy from Cisalpine Gaul, the province alloted to Julius Caesar.
Rubicund (a.) Inclining to redness; ruddy; red.
Rubicundity (n.) The quality or state of being rubicund; ruddiness.
Rubidic (a.) Of or pertaining to rubidium; containing rubidium.
Rubidine (n.) A nitrogenous base homologous with pyridine, obtained from coal tar as an oily liquid, C11H17N; also, any one of the group od metameric compounds of which rubidine is the type.
Rubidium (n.) A rare metallic element. It occurs quite widely, but in small quantities, and always combined. It is isolated as a soft yellowish white metal, analogous to potassium in most of its properties. Symbol Rb. Atomic weight, 85.2.
Rubific (a.) Making red; as, rubific rays.
Rubification (n.) The act of making red.
Rubiform (a.) Having the nature or quality of red; as, the rubiform rays of the sun.
Rubify (v. t.) To redden.
Rubiginose (a.) Alt. of Rubiginous
Rubiginous (a.) Having the appearance or color of iron rust; rusty-looking.
Rubigo (n.) same as Rust, n., 2.
Rubin (n.) A ruby.
Rubious (a.) Red; ruddy.
Rubiretin (n.) One of the red dye products extracted from madder root, and probably identical with ruberythrinic acid.
Ruble (n.) The unit of monetary value in Russia. It is divided into 100 copecks, and in the gold coin of the realm (as in the five and ten ruble pieces) is worth about 77 cents. The silver ruble is a coin worth about 60 cents.
Rubric (n.) That part of any work in the early manuscripts and typography which was colored red, to distinguish it from other portions.
Rubric (n.) A titlepage, or part of it, especially that giving the date and place of printing; also, the initial letters, etc., when printed in red.
Rubric (n.) The title of a statute; -- so called as being anciently written in red letters.
Rubric (n.) The directions and rules for the conduct of service, formerly written or printed in red; hence, also, an ecclesiastical or episcopal injunction; -- usually in the plural.
Rubric (n.) Hence, that which is established or settled, as by authority; a thing definitely settled or fixed.
Rubric (v. t.) To adorn ith red; to redden; to rubricate.
Rubric (a.) Alt. of Rubrical
Rubrical (a.) Colored in, or marked with, red; placed in rubrics.
Rubrical (a.) Of or pertaining to the rubric or rubrics.
Rubricate (n.) Marked with red.
Rubricate (v. t.) To mark or distinguished with red; to arrange as in a rubric; to establish in a settled and unchangeable form.
Rubrician (n.) Alt. of Rubricist
Rubricist (n.) One skilled in, or tenaciously adhering to, the rubric or rubrics.
Rubricity (n.) Redness.
Rubstone (n.) A stone for scouring or rubbing; a whetstone; a rub.
Rubus (n.) A genus of rosaceous plants, including the raspberry and blackberry.
Rubies (pl. ) of Ruby
Ruby (n.) A precious stone of a carmine red color, sometimes verging to violet, or intermediate between carmine and hyacinth red. It is a red crystallized variety of corundum.
Ruby (n.) The color of a ruby; carmine red; a red tint.
Ruby (n.) That which has the color of the ruby, as red wine. Hence, a red blain or carbuncle.
Ruby (n.) See Agate, n., 2.
Ruby (n.) Any species of South American humming birds of the genus Clytolaema. The males have a ruby-colored throat or breast.
Ruby (a.) Ruby-colored; red; as, ruby lips.
Rubied (imp. & p. p.) of Ruby
Rubying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ruby
Ruby (v. t.) To make red; to redden.
Rubytail (n.) A European gold wasp (Chrysis ignita) which has the under side of the abdomen bright red, and the other parts deep bluish green with a metallic luster. The larva is parasitic in the nests of other wasps and of bees.
Ruby-tailed (a.) Having the tail, or lower part of the body, bright red.
Rubythroat (n.) Any one of numerous species of humming birds belonging to Trochilus, Calypte, Stellula, and allies, in which the male has on the throat a brilliant patch of red feathers having metallic reflections; esp., the common humming bird of the Eastern United States (Trochilus colubris).
Rubywood (n.) red sandalwood. See under Sandalwood.
Rucervine (a.) Of, like, or pertaining to, a deer of the genus Rucervus, which includes the swamp deer of India.
Ruche (n.) A plaited, quilled, or goffered strip of lace, net, ribbon, or other material, -- used in place of collars or cuffs, and as a trimming for women's dresses and bonnets.
Ruche (n.) A pile of arched tiles, used to catch and retain oyster spawn.
Ruching (n.) A ruche, or ruches collectively.
Ruck (n.) A roc.
Rucked (imp. & p. p.) of Ruck
Rucking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ruck
Ruck (v. t. & i.) To draw into wrinkles or unsightly folds; to crease; as, to ruck up a carpet.
Ruck (v. t.) A wrinkle or crease in a piece of cloth, or in needlework.
Ruck (v. i.) To cower; to huddle together; to squat; to sit, as a hen on eggs.
Ruck (n.) A heap; a rick.
Ruck (n.) The common sort, whether persons or things; as, the ruck in a horse race.
Ructation (n.) The act of belching wind.
Ruction (n.) An uproar; a quarrel; a noisy outbreak.
Rud (n.) Redness; blush.
Rud (n.) Ruddle; red ocher.
Rud (n.) The rudd.
Rud (v. t.) To make red.
Rudd (n.) A fresh-water European fish of the Carp family (Leuciscus erythrophthalmus). It is about the size and shape of the roach, but it has the dorsal fin farther back, a stouter body, and red irises. Called also redeye, roud, finscale, and shallow. A blue variety is called azurine, or blue roach.
Rudder (n.) A riddle or sieve.
Rudder (n.) The mechanical appliance by means of which a vessel is guided or steered when in motion. It is a broad and flat blade made of wood or iron, with a long shank, and is fastened in an upright position, usually by one edge, to the sternpost of the vessel in such a way that it can be turned from side to side in the water by means of a tiller, wheel, or other attachment.
Rudder (n.) Fig.: That which resembles a rudder as a guide or governor; that which guides or governs the course.
Rudderhead (n.) The upper end of the rudderpost, to which the tiller is attached.
Rudderhole (n.) The hole in the deck through which the rudderpost passes.
Rudderless (a.) Without a rudder.
Rudderpost (n.) The shank of a rudder, having the blade at one end and the attachments for operating it at the other.
Rudderstock (n.) The main part or blade of the rudder, which is connected by hinges, or the like, with the sternpost of a vessel.
Ruddied (a.) Made ruddy or red.
Ruddily (adv.) In a ruddy manner.
Ruddiness (n.) The quality or state of being ruddy; as, the ruddiness of the cheeks or the sky.
Ruddle (v. t.) To raddle or twist.
Ruddle (n.) A riddle or sieve.
Ruddle (n.) A species of red earth colored by iron sesquioxide; red ocher.
Ruddle (v. t.) To mark with ruddle; to raddle; to rouge.
Ruddock (n.) The European robin.
Ruddock (n.) A piece of gold money; -- probably because the gold of coins was often reddened by copper alloy. Called also red ruddock, and golden ruddock.
Ruddy (n.) Of a red color; red, or reddish; as, a ruddy sky; a ruddy flame.
Ruddy (n.) Of a lively flesh color, or the color of the human skin in high health; as, ruddy cheeks or lips.
Ruddy (v. t.) To make ruddy.
Rude (superl.) Characterized by roughness; umpolished; raw; lacking delicacy or refinement; coarse.
Rude (superl.) Unformed by taste or skill; not nicely finished; not smoothed or polished; -- said especially of material things; as, rude workmanship.
Rude (superl.) Of untaught manners; unpolished; of low rank; uncivil; clownish; ignorant; raw; unskillful; -- said of persons, or of conduct, skill, and the like.
Rude (superl.) Violent; tumultuous; boisterous; inclement; harsh; severe; -- said of the weather, of storms, and the like; as, the rude winter.
Rude (superl.) Barbarous; fierce; bloody; impetuous; -- said of war, conflict, and the like; as, the rude shock of armies.
Rude (superl.) Not finished or complete; inelegant; lacking chasteness or elegance; not in good taste; unsatisfactory in mode of treatment; -- said of literature, language, style, and the like.
Rudenture (n.) Cabling. See Cabling.
Ruderary (a.) Of or pertaining to rubbish..
Rudesby (n.) An uncivil, turbulent fellow.
Rudesheimer (n.) A German wine made near Rudesheim, on the Rhine.
Rudiment (n.) That which is unformed or undeveloped; the principle which lies at the bottom of any development; an unfinished beginning.
Rudiment (n.) Hence, an element or first principle of any art or science; a beginning of any knowledge; a first step.
Rudiment (n.) An imperfect organ or part, or one which is never developed.
Rudiment (v. t.) To furnish with first principles or rules; to insrtuct in the rudiments.
Rudimental (a.) Rudimentary.
Rudimentary (a.) Of or pertaining to rudiments; consisting in first principles; elementary; initial; as, rudimental essays.
Rudimentary (a.) Very imperfectly developed; in an early stage of development; embryonic.
Rudish (a.) Somewhat rude.
Rudistes (n. pl.) An extinct order or suborder of bivalve mollusks characteristic of the Cretaceous period; -- called also Rudista. See Illust. under Hippurite.
Rudity (n.) Rudeness; ignorance.
Rudmasday (n.) Either of the feasts of the Holy Cross, occuring on May 3 and September 14, annually.
Rudolphine (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a set of astronomical tables computed by Kepler, and founded on the observations of Tycho Brahe; -- so named from Rudolph II., emperor of Germany.
Rue (n.) A perennial suffrutescent plant (Ruta graveolens), having a strong, heavy odor and a bitter taste; herb of grace. It is used in medicine.
Rue (n.) Fig.: Bitterness; disappointment; grief; regret.
Rued (imp. & p. p.) of Rue
Ruing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rue
Rue (v. t.) To lament; to regret extremely; to grieve for or over.
Rue (v. t.) To cause to grieve; to afflict.
Rue (v. t.) To repent of, and withdraw from, as a bargain; to get released from.
Rue (v. i.) To have compassion.
Rue (v. i.) To feel sorrow and regret; to repent.
Rue (v. t.) Sorrow; repetance.
Rueful (a.) Causing one to rue or lament; woeful; mournful; sorrowful.
Rueful (a.) Expressing sorrow.
Ruell bone () See rewel bone.
Ruelle (n.) A private circle or assembly at a private house; a circle.
Rufescent (a.) Reddish; tinged with red.
Ruff (n.) A game similar to whist, and the predecessor of it.
Ruff (n.) The act of trumping, especially when one has no card of the suit led.
Ruff (v. i. & t.) To trump.
Ruff (n.) A muslin or linen collar plaited, crimped, or fluted, worn formerly by both sexes, now only by women and children.
Ruff (n.) Something formed with plaits or flutings, like the collar of this name.
Ruff (n.) An exhibition of pride or haughtiness.
Ruff (n.) Wanton or tumultuous procedure or conduct.
Ruff (n.) A low, vibrating beat of a drum, not so loud as a roll; a ruffle.
Ruff (n.) A collar on a shaft ot other piece to prevent endwise motion. See Illust. of Collar.
Ruff (n.) A set of lengthened or otherwise modified feathers round, or on, the neck of a bird.
Ruff (n.) A limicoline bird of Europe and Asia (Pavoncella, / Philommachus, pugnax) allied to the sandpipers. The males during the breeding season have a large ruff of erectile feathers, variable in their colors, on the neck, and yellowish naked tubercles on the face. They are polygamous, and are noted for their pugnacity in the breeding season. The female is called reeve, or rheeve.
Ruff (n.) A variety of the domestic pigeon, having a ruff of its neck.
Ruffed (imp. & p. p.) of Ruff
Ruffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ruff
Ruff (v. t.) To ruffle; to disorder.
Ruff (v. t.) To beat with the ruff or ruffle, as a drum.
Ruff (v. t.) To hit, as the prey, without fixing it.
Ruff (n.) Alt. of Ruffe
Ruffe (n.) A small freshwater European perch (Acerina vulgaris); -- called also pope, blacktail, and stone, / striped, perch.
Ruffed (a.) Furnished with a ruff.
Ruffian (n.) A pimp; a pander; also, a paramour.
Ruffian (n.) A boisterous, cruel, brutal fellow; a desperate fellow ready for murderous or cruel deeds; a cutthroat.
Ruffian (a.) brutal; cruel; savagely boisterous; murderous; as, ruffian rage.
Ruffian (v. i.) To play the ruffian; to rage; to raise tumult.
Ruffianage (n.) Ruffians, collectively; a body of ruffians.
Ruffianish (a.) Having the qualities or manners of a ruffian; ruffianly.
Ruffianlike (a.) Ruffianly.
Ruffianly (a.) Like a ruffian; bold in crimes; characteristic of a ruffian; violent; brutal.
Ruffianous (a.) Ruffianly.
Ruffin (a.) Disordered.
Ruffled (imp. & p. p.) of Ruffle
Ruffling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ruffle
Ruffle (v. t.) To make into a ruff; to draw or contract into puckers, plaits, or folds; to wrinkle.
Ruffle (v. t.) To furnish with ruffles; as, to ruffle a shirt.
Ruffle (v. t.) To oughen or disturb the surface of; to make uneven by agitation or commotion.
Ruffle (v. t.) To erect in a ruff, as feathers.
Ruffle (v. t.) To beat with the ruff or ruffle, as a drum.
Ruffle (v. t.) To discompose; to agitate; to disturb.
Ruffle (v. t.) To throw into disorder or confusion.
Ruffle (v. t.) To throw together in a disorderly manner.
Ruffle (v. i.) To grow rough, boisterous, or turbulent.
Ruffle (v. i.) To become disordered; to play loosely; to flutter.
Ruffle (v. i.) To be rough; to jar; to be in contention; hence, to put on airs; to swagger.
Ruffle (v. t. & i.) That which is ruffled; specifically, a strip of lace, cambric, or other fine cloth, plaited or gathered on one edge or in the middle, and used as a trimming; a frill.
Ruffle (v. t. & i.) A state of being ruffled or disturbed; disturbance; agitation; commotion; as, to put the mind in a ruffle.
Ruffle (v. t. & i.) A low, vibrating beat of a drum, not so loud as a roll; -- called also ruff.
Ruffle (v. t. & i.) The connected series of large egg capsules, or oothecae, of any one of several species of American marine gastropods of the genus Fulgur. See Ootheca.
Ruffleless (a.) Having no ruffle.
Rufflement (n.) The act of ruffling.
Ruffler (n.) One who ruffles; a swaggerer; a bully; a ruffian.
Ruffler (n.) That which ruffles; specifically, a sewing machine attachment for making ruffles.
Rufigallic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid which is obtained from gallic acid as a brown or red crystalline substance, and is related to rufiopin and anthracene.
Rufiopin (n.) A yellowish red crystalline substance related to anthracene, and obtained from opianic acid.
Rufol (n.) A phenol derivative of anthracene obtained as a white crystalline substance, which on oxidation produces a red dyestuff related to anthraquinone.
Rufous (a.) Reddish; of a yellowish red or brownish red color; tawny.
Ruft (n.) Eructation; belching.
Rufterhood (n.) A kind of hood for a hawk.
Rug (a.) A kind of coarse, heavy frieze, formerly used for garments.
Rug (a.) A piece of thick, nappy fabric, commonly made of wool, -- used for various purposes, as for covering and ornamenting part of a bare floor, for hanging in a doorway as a potiere, for protecting a portion of carpet, for a wrap to protect the legs from cold, etc.
Rug (a.) A rough, woolly, or shaggy dog.
Rug (v. t.) To pull roughly or hastily; to plunder; to spoil; to tear.
Rugae (pl. ) of Ruga
Ruga (n.) A wrinkle; a fold; as, the rugae of the stomach.
Rugate (a.) Having alternate ridges and depressions; wrinkled.
Rugged (n.) Full of asperities on the surface; broken into sharp or irregular points, or otherwise uneven; not smooth; rough; as, a rugged mountain; a rugged road.
Rugged (n.) Not neat or regular; uneven.
Rugged (n.) Rough with bristles or hair; shaggy.
Rugged (n.) Harsh; hard; crabbed; austere; -- said of temper, character, and the like, or of persons.
Rugged (n.) Stormy; turbulent; tempestuous; rude.
Rugged (n.) Rough to the ear; harsh; grating; -- said of sound, style, and the like.
Rugged (n.) Sour; surly; frowning; wrinkled; -- said of looks, etc.
Rugged (n.) Violent; rude; boisterrous; -- said of conduct, manners, etc.
Rugged (n.) Vigorous; robust; hardy; -- said of health, physique, etc.
Rugging (n.) A coarse kind of woolen cloth, used for wrapping, blanketing, etc.
Rug-gowned (a.) Wearing a coarse gown or shaggy garment made of rug.
Ruggy (a.) Rugged; rough.
Rug-headed (a.) Having shaggy hair; shock-headed.
Rugin (n.) A nappy cloth.
Rugine (n.) An instrument for scraping the periosteum from bones; a raspatory.
Rugine (v. t.) To scrape or rasp, as a bone; to scale.
Rugosa (n. pl.) An extinct tribe of fossil corals, including numerous species, many of them of large size. They are characteristic of the Paleozoic formations. The radiating septs, when present, are usually in multiples of four. See Cyathophylloid.
Rugose (a.) Wrinkled; full of wrinkles; specifically (Bot.), having the veinlets sunken and the spaces between them elevated, as the leaves of the sage and horehound.
Rugosity (n.) The quality or state of being rugose.
Rugous (a.) Wrinkled; rugose.
Rugulose (a.) Somewhat rugose.
Ruhmkorff's coil () See Induction coil, under Induction.
Ruin (n.) The act of falling or tumbling down; fall.
Ruin (n.) Such a change of anything as destroys it, or entirely defeats its object, or unfits it for use; destruction; overthrow; as, the ruin of a ship or an army; the ruin of a constitution or a government; the ruin of health or hopes.
Ruin (n.) That which is fallen down and become worthless from injury or decay; as, his mind is a ruin; especially, in the plural, the remains of a destroyed, dilapidated, or desolate house, fortress, city, or the like.
Ruin (n.) The state of being dcayed, or of having become ruined or worthless; as, to be in ruins; to go to ruin.
Ruin (n.) That which promotes injury, decay, or destruction.
Ruined (imp. & p. p.) of Ruin
Ruining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ruin
Ruin (n.) To bring to ruin; to cause to fall to pieces and decay; to make to perish; to bring to destruction; to bring to poverty or bankruptcy; to impair seriously; to damage essentially; to overthrow.
Ruin (v. i.) To fall to ruins; to go to ruin; to become decayed or dilapidated; to perish.
Ruinable (a.) Capable of being ruined.
Ruinate (v. t.) To demolish; to subvert; to destroy; to reduce to poverty; to ruin.
Ruinate (v. t.) To cause to fall; to cast down.
Ruinate (v. i.) To fall; to tumble.
Ruinate (a.) Involved in ruin; ruined.
Ruination (n.) The act of ruining, or the state of being ruined.
Ruiner (n.) One who, or that which, ruins.
Ruiniform (a.) Having the appearance of ruins, or of the ruins of houses; -- said of certain minerals.
Ruinous (a.) Causing, or tending to cause, ruin; destructive; baneful; pernicious; as, a ruinous project.
Ruinous (a.) Characterized by ruin; ruined; dilapidated; as, an edifice, bridge, or wall in a ruinous state.
Ruinous (a.) Composed of, or consisting in, ruins.
Rukh (n.) The roc.
Rukh (n.) A large bird, supposed by some to be the same as the extinct Epiornis of Madagascar.
Rulable (a.) That may be ruled; subject to rule; accordant or conformable to rule.
Rule (a.) That which is prescribed or laid down as a guide for conduct or action; a governing direction for a specific purpose; an authoritative enactment; a regulation; a prescription; a precept; as, the rules of various societies; the rules governing a school; a rule of etiquette or propriety; the rules of cricket.
Rule (a.) Uniform or established course of things.
Rule (a.) Systematic method or practice; as, my ule is to rise at six o'clock.
Rule (a.) Ordibary course of procedure; usual way; comon state or condition of things; as, it is a rule to which there are many exeptions.
Rule (a.) Conduct in general; behavior.
Rule (a.) The act of ruling; administration of law; government; empire; authority; control.
Rule (a.) An order regulating the practice of the courts, or an order made between parties to an action or a suit.
Rule (a.) A determinate method prescribed for performing any operation and producing a certain result; as, a rule for extracting the cube root.
Rule (a.) A general principle concerning the formation or use of words, or a concise statement thereof; thus, it is a rule in England, that s or es , added to a noun in the singular number, forms the plural of that noun; but "man" forms its plural "men", and is an exception to the rule.
Rule (a.) A straight strip of wood, metal, or the like, which serves as a guide in drawing a straight line; a ruler.
Rule (a.) A measuring instrument consisting of a graduated bar of wood, ivory, metal, or the like, which is usually marked so as to show inches and fractions of an inch, and jointed so that it may be folded compactly.
Rule (a.) A thin plate of metal (usually brass) of the same height as the type, and used for printing lines, as between columns on the same page, or in tabular work.
Rule (a.) A composing rule. See under Conposing.
Ruled (imp. & p. p.) of Rule
Ruling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rule
Rule (n.) To control the will and actions of; to exercise authority or dominion over; to govern; to manage.
Rule (n.) To control or direct by influence, counsel, or persuasion; to guide; -- used chiefly in the passive.
Rule (n.) To establish or settle by, or as by, a rule; to fix by universal or general consent, or by common practice.
Rule (n.) To require or command by rule; to give as a direction or order of court.
Rule (n.) To mark with lines made with a pen, pencil, etc., guided by a rule or ruler; to print or mark with lines by means of a rule or other contrivance effecting a similar result; as, to rule a sheet of paper of a blank book.
Rule (v. i.) To have power or command; to exercise supreme authority; -- often followed by over.
Rule (v. i.) To lay down and settle a rule or order of court; to decide an incidental point; to enter a rule.
Rule (v. i.) To keep within a (certain) range for a time; to be in general, or as a rule; as, prices ruled lower yesterday than the day before.
Ruleless (a.) Destitute of rule; lawless.
Rule-monger (n.) A stickler for rules; a slave of rules
Ruler (n.) One who rules; one who exercises sway or authority; a governor.
Ruler (n.) A straight or curved strip of wood, metal, etc., with a smooth edge, used for guiding a pen or pencil in drawing lines. Cf. Rule, n., 7 (a).
Ruling (a.) Predominant; chief; reigning; controlling; as, a ruling passion; a ruling sovereign.
Ruling (a.) Used in marking or engraving lines; as, a ruling machine or pen.
Ruling (n.) The act of one who rules; ruled lines.
Ruling (n.) A decision or rule of a judge or a court, especially an oral decision, as in excluding evidence.
Rulingly (adv.) In a ruling manner; so as to rule.
Rullichies (n. pl.) Chopped meat stuffed into small bags of tripe. They are cut in slices and fried.
Ruly (a.) Orderly; easily restrained; -- opposed to unruly.
Rum (n.) A kind of intoxicating liquor distilled from cane juice, or from the scummings of the boiled juice, or from treacle or molasses, or from the lees of former distillations. Also, sometimes used colloquially as a generic or a collective name for intoxicating liquor.
Rum (a.) Old-fashioned; queer; odd; as, a rum idea; a rum fellow.
Rum (n.) A queer or odd person or thing; a country parson.
Rumble (v. i.) To make a low, heavy, continued sound; as, the thunder rumbles at a distance.
Rumble (v. i.) To murmur; to ripple.
Rumble (n.) A noisy report; rumor.
Rumble (n.) A low, heavy, continuous sound like that made by heavy wagons or the reverberation of thunder; a confused noise; as, the rumble of a railroad train.
Rumble (n.) A seat for servants, behind the body of a carriage.
Rumble (n.) A rotating cask or box in which small articles are smoothed or polished by friction against each other.
Rumble (v. t.) To cause to pass through a rumble, or shaking machine. See Rumble, n., 4.
Rumbler (n.) One who, or that which, rumbles.
Rumbling () a. & n. from Rumble, v. i.
Rumblingly (adv.) In a rumbling manner.
Rumbo (n.) Grog.
Rumbowline (n.) Same as Rombowline.
Rumen (n.) The first stomach of ruminants; the paunch; the fardingbag. See Illust. below.
Rumen (n.) The cud of a ruminant.
Rumicin (n.) A yellow crystalline substance found in the root of yellow dock (Rumex crispus) and identical with chrysophanic acid.
Ruminal (a.) Ruminant; ruminating.
Ruminant (a.) Chewing the cud; characterized by chewing again what has been swallowed; of or pertaining to the Ruminantia.
Ruminant (n.) A ruminant animal; one of the Ruminantia.
Ruminantia (n. pl.) A division of Artiodactyla having four stomachs. This division includes the camels, deer, antelopes, goats, sheep, neat cattle, and allies.
Ruminantly (adv.) In a ruminant manner; by ruminating, or chewing the cud.
Ruminated (imp. & p. p.) of Ruminate
Ruminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ruminate
Ruminate (v. i.) To chew the cud; to chew again what has been slightly chewed and swallowed.
Ruminate (v. i.) To think again and again; to muse; to meditate; to ponder; to reflect.
Ruminate (v. t.) To chew over again.
Ruminate (v. t.) To meditate or ponder over; to muse on.
Ruminate (a.) Alt. of Ruminated
Ruminated (a.) Having a hard albumen penetrated by irregular channels filled with softer matter, as the nutmeg and the seeds of the North American papaw.
Rumination (n.) The act or process of ruminating, or chewing the cud; the habit of chewing the cud.
Rumination (n.) The state of being disposed to ruminate or ponder; deliberate meditation or reflection.
Rumination (n.) The regurgitation of food from the stomach after it has been swallowed, -- occasionally observed as a morbid phenomenon in man.
Ruminative (a.) Inclined to, or engaged in, rumination or meditation.
Ruminator (n.) One who ruminates or muses; a meditator.
Rumkin (n.) A popular or jocular name for a drinking vessel.
Rummage (n.) A place or room for the stowage of cargo in a ship; also, the act of stowing cargo; the pulling and moving about of packages incident to close stowage; -- formerly written romage.
Rummage (n.) A searching carefully by looking into every corner, and by turning things over.
Rummaged (imp. & p. p.) of Rummage
Rummaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rummage
Rummage (v. t.) To make room in, as a ship, for the cargo; to move about, as packages, ballast, so as to permit close stowage; to stow closely; to pack; -- formerly written roomage, and romage.
Rummage (v. t.) To search or examine thoroughly by looking into every corner, and turning over or removing goods or other things; to examine, as a book, carefully, turning over leaf after leaf.
Rummage (v. i.) To search a place narrowly.
Rummager (n.) One who rummages.
Rummager (n.) A person on shipboard whose business was to take charge of stowing the cargo; -- formerly written roomager, and romager.
Rummer (n.) A large and tall glass, or drinking cup.
Rummy (a.) Of or pertaining to rum; characteristic of rum; as a rummy flavor.
Rummies (pl. ) of Rummy
Rummy (n.) One who drinks rum; an habitually intemperate person.
Rummy (a.) Strange; odd.
Rumney (n.) A sort of Spanish wine.
Rumor (n.) A flying or popular report; the common talk; hence, public fame; notoriety.
Rumor (n.) A current story passing from one person to another, without any known authority for its truth; -- in this sense often personified.
Rumor (n.) A prolonged, indistinct noise.
Rumored (imp. & p. p.) of Rumor
Rumoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rumor
Rumor (v. t.) To report by rumor; to tell.
Rumorer (n.) A teller of news; especially, one who spreads false reports.
Rumorous (a.) Of or pertaining to a rumor; of the nature of rumors.
Rumorous (a.) Famous; notorious.
Rumorous (a.) Murmuring.
Rump (n.) The end of the backbone of an animal, with the parts adjacent; the buttock or buttocks.
Rump (n.) Among butchers, the piece of beef between the sirloin and the aitchbone piece. See Illust. of Beef.
Rump (n.) The hind or tail end; a fag-end; a remnant.
Rumper (n.) A member or a supporter of the Rump Parliament.
Rump-fed (a.) A Shakespearean word of uncertain meaning. Perhaps "fattened in the rump, pampered."
Rumpled (imp. & p. p.) of Rumple
Rumpling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rumple
Rumple (v. t. & i.) To make uneven; to form into irregular inequalities; to wrinkle; to crumple; as, to rumple an apron or a cravat.
Rumple (n.) A fold or plait; a wrinkle.
Rumpled (a.) Wrinkled; crumpled.
Rumpless (a.) Destitute of a rump.
Rumply (a.) Rumpled.
Rumpus (n.) A disturbance; noise and confusion; a quarrel.
Rumseller (n.) One who sells rum; one who deals in intoxicating liquors; especially, one who sells spirituous beverages at retail.
Ran (imp.) of Run
Run () of Run
Run (p. p.) of Run
Running (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Run
Run (a.) To move, proceed, advance, pass, go, come, etc., swiftly, smoothly, or with quick action; -- said of things animate or inanimate. Hence, to flow, glide, or roll onward, as a stream, a snake, a wagon, etc.; to move by quicker action than in walking, as a person, a horse, a dog.
Run (a.) To go swiftly; to pass at a swift pace; to hasten.
Run (a.) To flee, as from fear or danger.
Run (a.) To steal off; to depart secretly.
Run (a.) To contend in a race; hence, to enter into a contest; to become a candidate; as, to run for Congress.
Run (a.) To pass from one state or condition to another; to come into a certain condition; -- often with in or into; as, to run into evil practices; to run in debt.
Run (a.) To exert continuous activity; to proceed; as, to run through life; to run in a circle.
Run (a.) To pass or go quickly in thought or conversation; as, to run from one subject to another.
Run (a.) To discuss; to continue to think or speak about something; -- with on.
Run (a.) To make numerous drafts or demands for payment, as upon a bank; -- with on.
Run (a.) To creep, as serpents.
Run (a.) To flow, as a liquid; to ascend or descend; to course; as, rivers run to the sea; sap runs up in the spring; her blood ran cold.
Run (a.) To proceed along a surface; to extend; to spread.
Run (a.) To become fluid; to melt; to fuse.
Run (a.) To turn, as a wheel; to revolve on an axis or pivot; as, a wheel runs swiftly round.
Run (a.) To travel; to make progress; to be moved by mechanical means; to go; as, the steamboat runs regularly to Albany; the train runs to Chicago.
Run (a.) To extend; to reach; as, the road runs from Philadelphia to New York; the memory of man runneth not to the contrary.
Run (a.) To go back and forth from place to place; to ply; as, the stage runs between the hotel and the station.
Run (a.) To make progress; to proceed; to pass.
Run (a.) To continue in operation; to be kept in action or motion; as, this engine runs night and day; the mill runs six days in the week.
Run (a.) To have a course or direction; as, a line runs east and west.
Run (a.) To be in form thus, as a combination of words.
Run (a.) To be popularly known; to be generally received.
Run (a.) To have growth or development; as, boys and girls run up rapidly.
Run (a.) To tend, as to an effect or consequence; to incline.
Run (a.) To spread and blend together; to unite; as, colors run in washing.
Run (a.) To have a legal course; to be attached; to continue in force, effect, or operation; to follow; to go in company; as, certain covenants run with the land.
Run (a.) To continue without falling due; to hold good; as, a note has thirty days to run.
Run (a.) To discharge pus or other matter; as, an ulcer runs.
Run (a.) To be played on the stage a number of successive days or nights; as, the piece ran for six months.
Run (a.) To sail before the wind, in distinction from reaching or sailing closehauled; -- said of vessels.
Run (a.) Specifically, of a horse: To move rapidly in a gait in which each leg acts in turn as a propeller and a supporter, and in which for an instant all the limbs are gathered in the air under the body.
Run (a.) To move rapidly by springing steps so that there is an instant in each step when neither foot touches the ground; -- so distinguished from walking in athletic competition.
Run (v. t.) To cause to run (in the various senses of Run, v. i.); as, to run a horse; to run a stage; to run a machine; to run a rope through a block.
Run (v. i.) To pursue in thought; to carry in contemplation.
Run (v. i.) To cause to enter; to thrust; as, to run a sword into or through the body; to run a nail into the foot.
Run (v. i.) To drive or force; to cause, or permit, to be driven.
Run (v. i.) To fuse; to shape; to mold; to cast; as, to run bullets, and the like.
Run (v. i.) To cause to be drawn; to mark out; to indicate; to determine; as, to run a line.
Run (v. i.) To cause to pass, or evade, offical restrictions; to smuggle; -- said of contraband or dutiable goods.
Run (v. i.) To go through or accomplish by running; as, to run a race; to run a certain career.
Run (v. i.) To cause to stand as a candidate for office; to support for office; as, to run some one for Congress.
Run (v. i.) To encounter or incur, as a danger or risk; as, to run the risk of losing one's life. See To run the chances, below.
Run (v. i.) To put at hazard; to venture; to risk.
Run (v. i.) To discharge; to emit; to give forth copiously; to be bathed with; as, the pipe or faucet runs hot water.
Run (v. i.) To be charged with, or to contain much of, while flowing; as, the rivers ran blood.
Run (v. i.) To conduct; to manage; to carry on; as, to run a factory or a hotel.
Run (v. i.) To tease with sarcasms and ridicule.
Run (v. i.) To sew, as a seam, by passing the needle through material in a continuous line, generally taking a series of stitches on the needle at the same time.
Run (v. i.) To migrate or move in schools; -- said of fish; esp., to ascend a river in order to spawn.
Run (n.) The act of running; as, a long run; a good run; a quick run; to go on the run.
Run (n.) A small stream; a brook; a creek.
Run (n.) That which runs or flows in the course of a certain operation, or during a certain time; as, a run of must in wine making; the first run of sap in a maple orchard.
Run (n.) A course; a series; that which continues in a certain course or series; as, a run of good or bad luck.
Run (n.) State of being current; currency; popularity.
Run (n.) Continued repetition on the stage; -- said of a play; as, to have a run of a hundred successive nights.
Run (n.) A continuing urgent demand; especially, a pressure on a bank or treasury for payment of its notes.
Run (n.) A range or extent of ground for feeding stock; as, a sheep run.
Run (n.) The aftermost part of a vessel's hull where it narrows toward the stern, under the quarter.
Run (n.) The distance sailed by a ship; as, a good run; a run of fifty miles.
Run (n.) A voyage; as, a run to China.
Run (n.) A pleasure excursion; a trip.
Run (n.) The horizontal distance to which a drift may be carried, either by license of the proprietor of a mine or by the nature of the formation; also, the direction which a vein of ore or other substance takes.
Run (n.) A roulade, or series of running tones.
Run (n.) The greatest degree of swiftness in marching. It is executed upon the same principles as the double-quick, but with greater speed.
Run (n.) The act of migrating, or ascending a river to spawn; -- said of fish; also, an assemblage or school of fishes which migrate, or ascend a river for the purpose of spawning.
Run (n.) In baseball, a complete circuit of the bases made by a player, which enables him to score one; in cricket, a passing from one wicket to the other, by which one point is scored; as, a player made three runs; the side went out with two hundred runs.
Run (n.) A pair or set of millstones.
Run (a.) Melted, or made from molten material; cast in a mold; as, run butter; run iron or lead.
Run (a.) Smuggled; as, run goods.
Runagate (n.) A fugitive; a vagabond; an apostate; a renegade. See Renegade.
Runaway (n.) One who, or that which, flees from danger, duty, restraint, etc.; a fugitive.
Runaway (n.) The act of running away, esp. of a horse or teams; as, there was a runaway yesterday.
Runaway (a.) Running away; fleeing from danger, duty, restraint, etc.; as, runaway soldiers; a runaway horse.
Runaway (a.) Accomplished by running away or elopement, or during flight; as, a runaway marriage.
Runaway (a.) Won by a long lead; as, a runaway victory.
Runaway (a.) Very successful; accomplishing success quickly; as, a runaway bestseller.
Runcation (n.) A weeding.
Runch (n.) The wild radish.
Runcinate (a.) Pinnately cut with the lobes pointing downwards, as the leaf of the dandelion.
Rundel (n.) A moat with water in it; also, a small stream; a runlet.
Rundel (n.) A circle.
Rundle (n.) A round; a step of a ladder; a rung.
Rundle (n.) A ball.
Rundle (n.) Something which rotates about an axis, as a wheel, or the drum of a capstan.
Rundle (n.) One of the pins or trundles of a lantern wheel.
Rundlet (n.) A small barrel of no certain dimensions. It may contain from 3 to 20 gallons, but it usually holds about 14/ gallons.
Rune (n.) A letter, or character, belonging to the written language of the ancient Norsemen, or Scandinavians; in a wider sense, applied to the letters of the ancient nations of Northern Europe in general.
Rune (n.) Old Norse poetry expressed in runes.
Runer (n.) A bard, or learned man, among the ancient Goths.
Rung () imp. & p. p. of Ring.
Rung (n.) A floor timber in a ship.
Rung (n.) One of the rounds of a ladder.
Rung (n.) One of the stakes of a cart; a spar; a heavy staff.
Rung (n.) One of the radial handles projecting from the rim of a steering wheel; also, one of the pins or trundles of a lantern wheel.
Runghead (n.) The upper end of a floor timber in a ship.
Runic (a.) Of or pertaining to a rune, to runes, or to the Norsemen; as, runic verses; runic letters; runic names; runic rhyme.
Runlet (n.) A little run or stream; a streamlet; a brook.
Runlet (n.) Same as Rundlet.
Runnel (n.) A rivulet or small brook.
Runner (n.) One who, or that which, runs; a racer.
Runner (n.) A detective.
Runner (n.) A messenger.
Runner (n.) A smuggler.
Runner (n.) One employed to solicit patronage, as for a steamboat, hotel, shop, etc.
Runner (n.) A slender trailing branch which takes root at the joints or end and there forms new plants, as in the strawberry and the common cinquefoil.
Runner (n.) The rotating stone of a set of millstones.
Runner (n.) A rope rove through a block and used to increase the mechanical power of a tackle.
Runner (n.) One of the pieces on which a sled or sleigh slides; also the part or blade of a skate which slides on the ice.
Runner (n.) A horizontal channel in a mold, through which the metal flows to the cavity formed by the pattern; also, the waste metal left in such a channel.
Runner (n.) A trough or channel for leading molten metal from a furnace to a ladle, mold, or pig bed.
Runner (n.) The movable piece to which the ribs of an umbrella are attached.
Runner (n.) A food fish (Elagatis pinnulatus) of Florida and the West Indies; -- called also skipjack, shoemaker, and yellowtail. The name alludes to its rapid successive leaps from the water.
Runner (n.) Any cursorial bird.
Runner (n.) A movable slab or rubber used in grinding or polishing a surface of stone.
Runner (n.) A tool on which lenses are fastened in a group, for polishing or grinding.
Runnet (n.) See Rennet.
Running (a.) Moving or advancing by running.
Running (a.) Having a running gait; not a trotter or pacer.
Running (a.) trained and kept for running races; as, a running horse.
Running (a.) Successive; one following the other without break or intervention; -- said of periods of time; as, to be away two days running; to sow land two years running.
Running (a.) Flowing; easy; cursive; as, a running hand.
Running (a.) Continuous; keeping along step by step; as, he stated the facts with a running explanation.
Running (a.) Extending by a slender climbing or trailing stem; as, a running vine.
Running (a.) Discharging pus; as, a running sore.
Running (n.) The act of one who, or of that which runs; as, the running was slow.
Running (n.) That which runs or flows; the quantity of a liquid which flows in a certain time or during a certain operation; as, the first running of a still.
Running (n.) The discharge from an ulcer or other sore.
Runningly (adv.) In a running manner.
Runnion (n.) See Ronion.
Runology (n.) The science of runes.
Runround (n.) A felon or whitlow.
Runt (a.) Any animal which is unusually small, as compared with others of its kind; -- applied particularly to domestic animals.
Runt (a.) A variety of domestic pigeon, related to the barb and carrier.
Runt (a.) A dwarf; also, a mean, despicable, boorish person; -- used opprobriously.
Runt (a.) The dead stump of a tree; also, the stem of a plant.
Runty (a.) Like a runt; diminutive; mean.
Runway (n.) The channel of a stream.
Runway (n.) The beaten path made by deer or other animals in passing to and from their feeding grounds.
Rupee (n.) A silver coin, and money of account, in the East Indies.
Rupellary (n.) Rocky.
Rupert's drop () A kind of glass drop with a long tail, made by dropping melted glass into water. It is remarkable for bursting into fragments when the surface is scratched or the tail broken; -- so called from Prince Rupert, nephew of Charles I., by whom they were first brought to England. Called also Rupert's ball, and glass tear.
Rupia (n.) An eruption upon the skin, consisting of vesicles with inflamed base and filled with serous, purulent, or bloody fluid, which dries up, forming a blackish crust.
Rupial (a.) Of or pertaining to rupia.
Rupicola (n.) A genus of beautiful South American passerine birds, including the cock of the rock.
Rupicoline (a.) Rock-inhabiting.
Ruption (n.) A breaking or bursting open; breach; rupture.
Ruptuary (n.) One not of noble blood; a plebeian; a roturier.
Rupture (n.) The act of breaking apart, or separating; the state of being broken asunder; as, the rupture of the skin; the rupture of a vessel or fiber; the rupture of a lutestring.
Rupture (n.) Breach of peace or concord between individuals; open hostility or war between nations; interruption of friendly relations; as, the parties came to a rupture.
Rupture (n.) Hernia. See Hernia.
Rupture (n.) A bursting open, as of a steam boiler, in a less sudden manner than by explosion. See Explosion.
Ruptured (imp. & p. p.) of Rupture
Rupturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rupture
Rupture (v. t.) To part by violence; to break; to burst; as, to rupture a blood vessel.
Rupture (v. t.) To produce a hernia in.
Rupture (v. i.) To suffer a breach or disruption.
Ruptured (a.) Having a rupture, or hernia.
Rupturewort (n.) Same as Burstwort.
Rupturewort (n.) A West Indian plant (Alternanthera polygonoides) somewhat resembling burstwort.
Rural (a.) Of or pertaining to the country, as distinguished from a city or town; living in the country; suitable for, or resembling, the country; rustic; as, rural scenes; a rural prospect.
Rural (a.) Of or pertaining to agriculture; as, rural economy.
Rurales (n. pl.) The gossamer-winged butterflies; a family of small butterflies, including the hairstreaks, violets, and theclas.
Ruralism (n.) The quality or state of being rural; ruralness.
Ruralism (n.) A rural idiom or expression.
Ruralist (n.) One who leads a rural life.
ties (pl. ) of Rurality
Rurality (n.) The quality or state of being rural.
Rurality (n.) A rural place.
Ruralized (imp. & p. p.) of Ruralize
Ruralizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ruralize
Ruralize (v. t.) To render rural; to give a rural appearance to.
Ruralize (v. i.) To become rural; to go into the country; to rusticate.
Rurally (adv.) In a rural manner; as in the country.
Ruralness (n.) The quality or state of being rural.
Ruricolist (n.) An inhabitant of the country.
Ruridecanal (a.) Of or pertaining to a rural dean; as, a ruridecanal district; the ruridecanal intellect.
Rurigenous (a.) Born in the country.
Ruse (n.) An artifice; trick; stratagem; wile; fraud; deceit.
Rush (n.) A name given to many aquatic or marsh-growing endogenous plants with soft, slender stems, as the species of Juncus and Scirpus.
Rush (n.) The merest trifle; a straw.
Rushed (imp. & p. p.) of Rush
Rushing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rush
Rush (v. i.) To move forward with impetuosity, violence, and tumultuous rapidity or haste; as, armies rush to battle; waters rush down a precipice.
Rush (v. i.) To enter into something with undue haste and eagerness, or without due deliberation and preparation; as, to rush business or speculation.
Rush (v. t.) To push or urge forward with impetuosity or violence; to hurry forward.
Rush (v. t.) To recite (a lesson) or pass (an examination) without an error.
Rush (n.) A moving forward with rapidity and force or eagerness; a violent motion or course; as, a rush of troops; a rush of winds; a rush of water.
Rush (n.) Great activity with pressure; as, a rush of business.
Rush (n.) A perfect recitation.
Rush (n.) A rusher; as, the center rush, whose place is in the center of the rush line; the end rush.
Rush (n.) The act of running with the ball.
Rush-bearing (n.) A kind of rural festival at the dedication of a church, when the parishioners brought rushes to strew the church.
Rushbuckler (n.) A bullying and violent person; a braggart; a swashbuckler.
Rushed (a.) Abounding or covered with rushes.
Rusher (n.) One who rushes.
Rusher (n.) One who strewed rushes on the floor at dances.
Rushiness (n.) The quality or state of abounding with rushes.
Rushingly (adv.) In a rushing manner.
Rushlight (n.) A rush candle, or its light; hence, a small, feeble light.
Rushlike (a.) Resembling a rush; weak.
Rushy (a.) Abounding with rushes.
Rushy (a.) Made of rushes.
Rusine (a.) Of, like, or pertaining to, a deer of the genus Rusa, which includes the sambur deer (Rusa Aristotelis) of India.
Rusk (n.) A kind of light, soft bread made with yeast and eggs, often toasted or crisped in an oven; or, a kind of sweetened biscuit.
Rusk (n.) A kind of light, hard cake or bread, as for stores.
Rusk (n.) Bread or cake which has been made brown and crisp, and afterwards grated, or pulverized in a mortar.
Rusma (n.) A depilatory made of orpiment and quicklime, and used by the Turks. See Rhusma.
Russ (n. sing. & pl.) A Russian, or the Russians.
Russ (n. sing. & pl.) The language of the Russians.
Russ (a.) Of or pertaining to the Russians.
Russet (a.) Of a reddish brown color, or (by some called) a red gray; of the color composed of blue, red, and yellow in equal strength, but unequal proportions, namely, two parts of red to one each of blue and yellow; also, of a yellowish brown color.
Russet (a.) Coarse; homespun; rustic.
Russet (n.) A russet color; a pigment of a russet color.
Russet (n.) Cloth or clothing of a russet color.
Russet (n.) A country dress; -- so called because often of a russet color.
Russet (n.) An apple, or a pear, of a russet color; as, the English russet, and the Roxbury russet.
Russeting (n.) See Russet, n., 2 and 4.
Russety (a.) Of a russet color; russet.
Russia (n.) A country of Europe and Asia.
Russian (a.) Of or pertaining to Russia, its inhabitants, or language.
Russian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Russia; the language of Russia.
Russianize (v. t.) To make Russian, or more or less like the Russians; as, to Russianize the Poles.
Russification (n.) The act or process of Russifying, or the state of being Russified.
Russify (v. t.) To Russianize; as, to Russify conquered tribes.
Russophile (n.) Alt. of Russophilist
Russophilist (n.) One who, not being a Russian, favors Russian policy and aggrandizement.
Russophobe () Alt. of Russophobist
Russophobist () One who dreads Russia or Russian influence.
Russophobia (n.) Morbid dread of Russia or of Russian influence.
Rust (n.) The reddish yellow coating formed on iron when exposed to moist air, consisting of ferric oxide or hydroxide; hence, by extension, any metallic film of corrosion.
Rust (n.) A minute mold or fungus forming reddish or rusty spots on the leaves and stems of cereal and other grasses (Trichobasis Rubigo-vera), now usually believed to be a form or condition of the corn mildew (Puccinia graminis). As rust, it has solitary reddish spores; as corn mildew, the spores are double and blackish.
Rust (n.) That which resembles rust in appearance or effects.
Rust (n.) A composition used in making a rust joint. See Rust joint, below.
Rust (n.) Foul matter arising from degeneration; as, rust on salted meat.
Rust (n.) Corrosive or injurious accretion or influence.
Rusted (imp. & p. p.) of Rust
Rusting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rust
Rust (v. i.) To contract rust; to be or become oxidized.
Rust (v. i.) To be affected with the parasitic fungus called rust; also, to acquire a rusty appearance, as plants.
Rust (v. i.) To degenerate in idleness; to become dull or impaired by inaction.
Rust (v. t.) To cause to contract rust; to corrode with rust; to affect with rust of any kind.
Rust (v. t.) To impair by time and inactivity.
Rustful (a.) Full of rust; resembling rust; causing rust; rusty.
Rustic (a.) Of or pertaining to the country; rural; as, the rustic gods of antiquity.
Rustic (a.) Rude; awkward; rough; unpolished; as, rustic manners.
Rustic (a.) Coarse; plain; simple; as, a rustic entertainment; rustic dress.
Rustic (a.) Simple; artless; unadorned; unaffected.
Rustic (n.) An inhabitant of the country, especially one who is rude, coarse, or dull; a clown.
Rustic (n.) A rural person having a natural simplicity of character or manners; an artless, unaffected person.
Rustical (a.) Rustic.
Rusticated (imp. & p. p.) of Rusticate
Rusticating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rusticate
Rusticate (v. i.) To go into or reside in the country; to ruralize.
Rusticate (v. t.) To require or compel to reside in the country; to banish or send away temporarily; to impose rustication on.
Rusticated (a.) Resembling rustic work. See Rustic work (a), under Rustic.
Rustication (n.) The act of rusticating, or the state of being rusticated; specifically, the punishment of a student for some offense, by compelling him to leave the institution for a time.
Rustication (n.) Rustic work.
Rusticity (n.) The quality or state of being rustic; rustic manners; rudeness; simplicity; artlessness.
Rusticly (adv.) In a rustic manner; rustically.
Rustily (adv.) In a rusty state.
Rustiness (n.) The quality or state of being rusty.
Rustled (imp. & p. p.) of Rustle
Rustling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rustle
Rustle (v. i.) To make a quick succession of small sounds, like the rubbing or moving of silk cloth or dry leaves.
Rustle (v. i.) To stir about energetically; to strive to succeed; to bustle about.
Rustle (v. t.) To cause to rustle; as, the wind rustles the leaves.
Rustle (n.) A quick succession or confusion of small sounds, like those made by shaking leaves or straw, by rubbing silk, or the like; a rustling.
Rustler (n.) One who, or that which, rustles.
Rustler (n.) A bovine animal that can care for itself in any circumstances; also, an alert, energetic, driving person.
Rustless (a.) Free from rust.
Rusty (superl.) Covered or affected with rust; as, a rusty knife or sword; rusty wheat.
Rusty (superl.) Impaired by inaction, disuse, or neglect.
Rusty (superl.) Discolored and rancid; reasty; as, rusty bacon.
Rusty (superl.) Surly; morose; crusty; sullen.
Rusty (superl.) Rust-colored; dark.
Rusty (superl.) Discolored; stained; not cleanly kept; filthy.
Rusty (superl.) Resembling, or covered with a substance resembling, rust; affected with rust; rubiginous.
Rut (n.) Sexual desire or oestrus of deer, cattle, and various other mammals; heat; also, the period during which the oestrus exists.
Rut (n.) Roaring, as of waves breaking upon the shore; rote. See Rote.
Rutted (imp. & p. p.) of Rut
Rutting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Rut
Rut (v. i.) To have a strong sexual impulse at the reproductive period; -- said of deer, cattle, etc.
Rut (v. t.) To cover in copulation.
Rut (n.) A track worn by a wheel or by habitual passage of anything; a groove in which anything runs. Also used figuratively.
Rut (v. t.) To make a rut or ruts in; -- chiefly used as a past participle or a participial adj.; as, a rutted road.
Ruta-baga (n.) A kind of turnip commonly with a large and long or ovoid yellowish root; a Swedish turnip. See Turnip.
Rutaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to plants of a natural order (Rutaceae) of which the rue is the type, and which includes also the orange, lemon, dittany, and buchu.
Rutate (n.) A salt of rutic acid.
Ruth (v.) Sorrow for the misery of another; pity; tenderness.
Ruth (v.) That which causes pity or compassion; misery; distress; a pitiful sight.
Ruthenic (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, ruthenium; specifically, designating those compounds in which it has a higher valence as contrasted with ruthenious compounds.
Ruthenious (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, ruthenium; specifically, designating those compounds in which it has a lower valence as contrasted with ruthenic compounds.
Ruthenium (n.) A rare element of the light platinum group, found associated with platinum ores, and isolated as a hard, brittle steel-gray metal which is very infusible. Symbol Ru. Atomic weight 103.5. Specific gravity 12.26. See Platinum metals, under Platinum.
Ruthful (a.) Full of ruth
Ruthful (a.) Pitiful; tender.
Ruthful (a.) Full of sorrow; woeful.
Ruthful (a.) Causing sorrow.
Ruthless (a.) Having no ruth; cruel; pitiless.
Rutic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, rue (Ruta); as, rutic acid, now commonly called capric acid.
Rutilant (a.) Having a reddish glow; shining.
Rutilate (v. i.) To shine; to emit rays of light.
Rutile (n.) A mineral usually of a reddish brown color, and brilliant metallic adamantine luster, occurring in tetragonal crystals. In composition it is titanium dioxide, like octahedrite and brookite.
Rutilian (n.) Any species of lamellicorn beetles belonging to Rutila and allied genera, as the spotted grapevine beetle (Pelidnota punctata).
Rutin (n.) A glucoside resembling, but distinct from, quercitrin. Rutin is found in the leaves of the rue (Ruta graveolens) and other plants, and obtained as a bitter yellow crystalline substance which yields quercitin on decomposition.
Rutinose. () A disaccharide present in glycosides.
Rutter (n.) A horseman or trooper.
Rutter (n.) That which ruts.
Rutterkin (n.) An old crafty fox or beguiler -- a word of contempt.
Ruttier (n.) A chart of a course, esp. at sea.
Ruttish (a.) Inclined to rut; lustful; libidinous; salacious.
Ruttle (n.) A rattling sound in the throat arising from difficulty of breathing; a rattle.
Rutty (a.) Ruttish; lustful.
Rutty (a.) Full of ruts; as, a rutty road.
Rutty (a.) Rooty.
Rutylene (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon, C10H18, of the acetylene series. It is produced artificially.
Ryal (a.) Royal.
Ryal (n.) See Rial, an old English coin.
Ryder (n.) A clause added to a document; a rider. See Rider.
Ryder (n.) A gold coin of Zealand [Netherlands] equal to 14 florins, about $ 5.60.
Rye (n.) A grain yielded by a hardy cereal grass (Secale cereale), closely allied to wheat; also, the plant itself. Rye constitutes a large portion of the breadstuff used by man.
Rye (n.) A disease in a hawk.
Rynd (n.) A piece of iron crossing the hole in the upper millstone by which the stone is supported on the spindle.
Ryot (n.) A peasant or cultivator of the soil.
Rypophagous (a.) Eating, or subsisting on, filth.
Rys (n.) A branch.
Rysh (n.) Rush, a plant.
Rysimeter (n.) See Rhysimeter.
Ryth (n.) A ford.
Rytina (n.) A genus of large edentulous sirenians, allied to the dugong and manatee, including but one species (R. Stelleri); -- called also Steller's sea cow.
S () the nineteenth letter of the English alphabet, is a consonant, and is often called a sibilant, in allusion to its hissing sound. It has two principal sounds; one a mere hissing, as in sack, this; the other a vocal hissing (the same as that of z), as in is, wise. Besides these it sometimes has the sounds of sh and zh, as in sure, measure. It generally has its hissing sound at the beginning of words, but in the middle and at the end of words its sound is determined by usage. In a few words it is silent, as in isle, debris. With the letter h it forms the digraph sh. See Guide to pronunciation, // 255-261.
-s () The suffix used to form the plural of most words; as in roads, elfs, sides, accounts.
-s () The suffix used to form the third person singular indicative of English verbs; as in falls, tells, sends.
-s () An adverbial suffix; as in towards, needs, always, -- originally the genitive, possesive, ending. See -'s.
's () A contraction for is or (colloquially) for has.
Saadh (n.) See Sadh.
Saan (n. pl.) Same as Bushmen.
Sabadilla (n.) A Mexican liliaceous plant (Schoenocaulon officinale); also, its seeds, which contain the alkaloid veratrine. It was formerly used in medicine as an emetic and purgative.
Sabaean (a. & n.) Same as Sabian.
Sabaeanism (n.) Same as Sabianism.
Sabaeism (n.) Alt. of Sabaism
Sabaism (n.) See Sabianism.
Sabal (n.) A genus of palm trees including the palmetto of the Southern United States.
Sabaoth (n. pl.) Armies; hosts.
Sabaoth (n. pl.) Incorrectly, the Sabbath.
Sabbat (n.) In mediaeval demonology, the nocturnal assembly in which demons and sorcerers were thought to celebrate their orgies.
Sabbatarian (n.) One who regards and keeps the seventh day of the week as holy, agreeably to the letter of the fourth commandment in the Decalogue.
Sabbatarian (n.) A strict observer of the Sabbath.
Sabbatarian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Sabbath, or the tenets of Sabbatarians.
Sabbatarianism (n.) The tenets of Sabbatarians.
Sabbath (n.) A season or day of rest; one day in seven appointed for rest or worship, the observance of which was enjoined upon the Jews in the Decalogue, and has been continued by the Christian church with a transference of the day observed from the last to the first day of the week, which is called also Lord's Day.
Sabbath (n.) The seventh year, observed among the Israelites as one of rest and festival.
Sabbath (n.) Fig.: A time of rest or repose; intermission of pain, effort, sorrow, or the like.
Sabbathless (a.) Without Sabbath, or intermission of labor; hence, without respite or rest.
Sabbatic (a.) Alt. of Sabbatical
Sabbatical (a.) Of or pertaining to the Sabbath; resembling the Sabbath; enjoying or bringing an intermission of labor.
Sabbatism (n.) Intermission of labor, as upon the Sabbath; rest.
Sabbaton (n.) A round-toed, armed covering for the feet, worn during a part of the sixteenth century in both military and civil dress.
Sabean (a. & n.) Same as Sabian.
Sabeism (n.) Same as Sabianism.
Sabella (n.) A genus of tubicolous annelids having a circle of plumose gills around the head.
Sabellian (a.) Pertaining to the doctrines or tenets of Sabellius. See Sabellian, n.
Sabellian (n.) A follower of Sabellius, a presbyter of Ptolemais in the third century, who maintained that there is but one person in the Godhead, and that the Son and Holy Spirit are only different powers, operations, or offices of the one God the Father.
Sabellianism (n.) The doctrines or tenets of Sabellius. See Sabellian, n.
Sabelloid (a.) Like, or related to, the genus Sabella.
Saber (n.) Alt. of Sabre
Sabre (n.) A sword with a broad and heavy blade, thick at the back, and usually more or less curved like a scimiter; a cavalry sword.
Sabered (imp. & p. p.) of Sabre
Sabred () of Sabre
Sabering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sabre
Sabring () of Sabre
Saber (v. t.) Alt. of Sabre
Sabre (v. t.) To strike, cut, or kill with a saber; to cut down, as with a saber.
Saberbill (n.) Alt. of Sabrebill
Sabrebill (n.) The curlew.
Sabian (a.) Of or pertaining to Saba in Arabia, celebrated for producing aromatic plants.
Sabian (a.) Relating to the religion of Saba, or to the worship of the heavenly bodies.
Sabian (n.) An adherent of the Sabian religion; a worshiper of the heavenly bodies.
Sabianism (n.) The doctrine of the Sabians; the Sabian religion; that species of idolatry which consists in worshiping the sun, moon, and stars; heliolatry.
Sabicu (n.) The very hard wood of a leguminous West Indian tree (Lysiloma Sabicu), valued for shipbuilding.
Sabine (a.) Of or pertaining to the ancient Sabines, a people of Italy.
Sabine (n.) One of the Sabine people.
Sabine (n.) See Savin.
Sable (n.) A carnivorous animal of the Weasel family (Mustela zibellina) native of the northern latitudes of Europe, Asia, and America, -- noted for its fine, soft, and valuable fur.
Sable (n.) The fur of the sable.
Sable (n.) A mourning garment; a funeral robe; -- generally in the plural.
Sable (n.) The tincture black; -- represented by vertical and horizontal lines crossing each other.
Sable (a.) Of the color of the sable's fur; dark; black; -- used chiefly in poetry.
Sabled (imp. & p. p.) of Sable
Sabling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sable
Sable (v. t.) To render sable or dark; to drape darkly or in black.
Sabot (n.) A kind of wooden shoe worn by the peasantry in France, Belgium, Sweden, and some other European countries.
Sabot (n.) A thick, circular disk of wood, to which the cartridge bag and projectile are attached, in fixed ammunition for cannon; also, a piece of soft metal attached to a projectile to take the groove of the rifling.
Sabotiere (n.) A kind of freezer for ices.
Sabre (n. & v.) See Saber.
Sabretasche (n.) A leather case or pocket worn by cavalry at the left side, suspended from the sword belt.
Sabrina work () A variety of applique work for quilts, table covers, etc.
Sabulose (a.) Growing in sandy places.
Sabulosity (n.) The quality of being sabulous; sandiness; grittiness.
Sabulous (a.) Sandy; gritty.
Sac (n.) See Sacs.
Sac (n.) The privilege formerly enjoyed by the lord of a manor, of holding courts, trying causes, and imposing fines.
Sac (n.) See 2d Sack.
Sac (n.) A cavity, bag, or receptacle, usually containing fluid, and either closed, or opening into another cavity to the exterior; a sack.
Sacalait (n.) A kind of fresh-water bass; the crappie.
Sacar (n.) See Saker.
Saccade (n.) A sudden, violent check of a horse by drawing or twitching the reins on a sudden and with one pull.
Saccate (a.) Having the form of a sack or pouch; furnished with a sack or pouch, as a petal.
Saccate (a.) Of or pertaining to the Saccata, a suborder of ctenophores having two pouches into which the long tentacles can be retracted.
Saccharate (n.) A salt of saccharic acid.
Saccharate (n.) In a wider sense, a compound of saccharose, or any similar carbohydrate, with such bases as the oxides of calcium, barium, or lead; a sucrate.
Saccharic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, saccharine substances; specifically, designating an acid obtained, as a white amorphous gummy mass, by the oxidation of mannite, glucose, sucrose, etc.
Sacchariferous (a.) Producing sugar; as, sacchariferous canes.
Saccharified (imp. & p. p.) of Saccharify
Saccharifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Saccharify
Saccharify (v. t.) To convert into, or to impregnate with, sugar.
Saccharilla (n.) A kind of muslin.
Saccharimeter (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the quantity of saccharine matter in any solution, as the juice of a plant, or brewers' and distillers' worts.
Saccharimetrical (a.) Of or pertaining to saccharimetry; obtained by saccharimetry.
Saccharimetry (n.) The act, process or method of determining the amount and kind of sugar present in sirup, molasses, and the like, especially by the employment of polarizing apparatus.
Saccharin (n.) A bitter white crystalline substance obtained from the saccharinates and regarded as the lactone of saccharinic acid; -- so called because formerly supposed to be isomeric with cane sugar (saccharose).
Saccharinate (n.) A salt of saccharinic acid.
Saccharinate (n.) A salt of saccharine.
Saccharine (a.) Of or pertaining to sugar; having the qualities of sugar; producing sugar; sweet; as, a saccharine taste; saccharine matter.
Saccharine (n.) A trade name for benzoic sulphinide.
Saccharinic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, saccharin; specifically, designating a complex acid not known in the free state but well known in its salts, which are obtained by boiling dextrose and levulose (invert sugar) with milk of lime.
Saccharized (imp. & p. p.) of Saccharize
Saccharizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Saccharize
Saccharize (v. t.) To convert into, or to impregnate with, sugar.
Saccharoid (a.) Alt. of Saccharoidal
Saccharoidal (a.) Resembling sugar, as in taste, appearance, consistency, or composition; as, saccharoidal limestone.
Saccharometer (n.) A saccharimeter.
Saccharomyces (n.) A genus of budding fungi, the various species of which have the power, to a greater or less extent, or splitting up sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid. They are the active agents in producing fermentation of wine, beer, etc. Saccharomyces cerevisiae is the yeast of sedimentary beer. Also called Torula.
Saccharomycetes (n. pl.) A family of fungi consisting of the one genus Saccharomyces.
Saccharonate (n.) A salt of saccharonic acid.
Saccharone (n.) A white crystalline substance, C6H8O6, obtained by the oxidation of saccharin, and regarded as the lactone of saccharonic acid.
Saccharone (n.) An oily liquid, C6H10O2, obtained by the reduction of saccharin.
Saccharonic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, saccharone; specifically, designating an unstable acid which is obtained from saccharone (a) by hydration, and forms a well-known series of salts.
Saccharose (n.) Cane sugar; sucrose; also, in general, any one of the group of which saccharose, or sucrose proper, is the type. See Sucrose.
Saccharous (a.) Saccharine.
Saccharum (n.) A genus of tall tropical grasses including the sugar cane.
Saccholactate (n.) A salt of saccholactic acid; -- formerly called also saccholate.
Saccholactic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid now called mucic acid; saccholic.
Saccholic (a.) Saccholactic.
Sacchulmate (n.) A salt of sacchulmic acid.
Sacchulmic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained as a dark amorphous substance by the long-continued boiling of sucrose with very dilute sulphuric acid. It resembles humic acid.
Sacchulmin (n.) An amorphous huminlike substance resembling sacchulmic acid, and produced together with it.
Sacciferous (a.) Bearing a sac.
Sacciform (a.) Having the general form of a sac.
Saccoglossa (n. pl.) Same as Pellibranchiata.
Saccular (a.) Like a sac; sacciform.
Sacculated (a.) Furnished with little sacs.
Saccule (n.) A little sac; specifically, the sacculus of the ear.
Sacculo-cochlear (a.) Pertaining to the sacculus and cochlea of the ear.
Sacculo-utricular (a.) Pertaining to the sacculus and utriculus of the ear.
Sacculi (pl. ) of Sacculus
Sacculus (n.) A little sac; esp., a part of the membranous labyrinth of the ear.
Sacci (pl. ) of Saccus
Saccus (n.) A sac.
Sacella (pl. ) of Sacellum
Sacellum (n.) An unroofed space consecrated to a divinity.
Sacellum (n.) A small monumental chapel in a church.
Sacerdotal (a.) Of or pertaining to priests, or to the order of priests; relating to the priesthood; priesty; as, sacerdotal dignity; sacerdotal functions.
Sacerdotalism (m.) The system, style, spirit, or character, of a priesthood, or sacerdotal order; devotion to the interests of the sacerdotal order.
Sacerdotally (adv.) In a sacerdotal manner.
Sachel (n.) A small bag.
Sachem (n.) A chief of a tribe of the American Indians; a sagamore.
Sachemdom (n.) The government or jurisdiction of a sachem.
Sachemship (n.) Office or condition of a sachem.
Sachet (n.) A scent bag, or perfume cushion, to be laid among handkerchiefs, garments, etc., to perfume them.
Saciety (n.) Satiety.
Sack (n.) A name formerly given to various dry Spanish wines.
Sack (n.) A bag for holding and carrying goods of any kind; a receptacle made of some kind of pliable material, as cloth, leather, and the like; a large pouch.
Sack (n.) A measure of varying capacity, according to local usage and the substance. The American sack of salt is 215 pounds; the sack of wheat, two bushels.
Sack (n.) Originally, a loosely hanging garment for women, worn like a cloak about the shoulders, and serving as a decorative appendage to the gown; now, an outer garment with sleeves, worn by women; as, a dressing sack.
Sack (n.) A sack coat; a kind of coat worn by men, and extending from top to bottom without a cross seam.
Sack (n.) See 2d Sac, 2.
Sack (n.) Bed.
Sack (v. t.) To put in a sack; to bag; as, to sack corn.
Sack (v. t.) To bear or carry in a sack upon the back or the shoulders.
Sack (n.) The pillage or plunder, as of a town or city; the storm and plunder of a town; devastation; ravage.
Sacked (imp. & p. p.) of Sack
Sacking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sack
Sack (v. t.) To plunder or pillage, as a town or city; to devastate; to ravage.
Sackage (n.) The act of taking by storm and pillaging; sack.
Sackbut (n.) A brass wind instrument, like a bass trumpet, so contrived that it can be lengthened or shortened according to the tone required; -- said to be the same as the trombone.
Sackcloth (n.) Linen or cotton cloth such as sacks are made of; coarse cloth; anciently, a cloth or garment worn in mourning, distress, mortification, or penitence.
Sackclothed (a.) Clothed in sackcloth.
Sacker (n.) One who sacks; one who takes part in the storm and pillage of a town.
Sackfuls (pl. ) of Sackful
Sackful (n.) As much as a sack will hold.
Sackful (a.) Bent on plunder.
Sacking (n.) Stout, coarse cloth of which sacks, bags, etc., are made.
Sackless (a.) Quiet; peaceable; harmless; innocent.
Sack-winged (a.) Having a peculiar pouch developed near the front edge of the wing; -- said of certain bats of the genus Saccopteryx.
Sacque (n.) Same as 2d Sack, 3.
Sacral (a.) Of or pertaining to the sacrum; in the region of the sacrum.
Sacrament (n.) The oath of allegiance taken by Roman soldiers; hence, a sacred ceremony used to impress an obligation; a solemn oath-taking; an oath.
Sacrament (n.) The pledge or token of an oath or solemn covenant; a sacred thing; a mystery.
Sacrament (n.) One of the solemn religious ordinances enjoined by Christ, the head of the Christian church, to be observed by his followers; hence, specifically, the eucharist; the Lord's Supper.
Sacrament (v. t.) To bind by an oath.
Sacramental (a.) Of or pertaining to a sacrament or the sacraments; of the nature of a sacrament; sacredly or solemnly binding; as, sacramental rites or elements.
Sacramental (a.) Bound by a sacrament.
Sacramental (n.) That which relates to a sacrament.
Sacramentalism (n.) The doctrine and use of sacraments; attachment of excessive importance to sacraments.
Sacramentalist (n.) One who holds the doctrine of the real objective presence of Christ's body and blood in the holy eucharist.
Sacramentally (adv.) In a sacramental manner.
Sacramentarian (n.) A name given in the sixteenth century to those German reformers who rejected both the Roman and the Lutheran doctrine of the holy eucharist.
Sacramentarian (n.) One who holds extreme opinions regarding the efficacy of sacraments.
Sacramentarian (a.) Of or pertaining a sacrament, or to the sacramentals; sacramental.
Sacramentarian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Sacramentarians.
Sacramentary (a.) Of or pertaining to a sacrament or the sacraments; sacramental.
Sacramentary (a.) Of or pertaining to the Sacramentarians.
-ries (pl. ) of Sacramentary
Sacramentary (n.) An ancient book of the Roman Catholic Church, written by Pope Gelasius, and revised, corrected, and abridged by St. Gregory, in which were contained the rites for Mass, the sacraments, the dedication of churches, and other ceremonies. There are several ancient books of the same kind in France and Germany.
Sacramentary (n.) Same as Sacramentarian, n., 1.
Sacramentize (v. i.) To administer the sacraments.
-ria (pl. ) of Sacrarium
Sacrarium (n.) A sort of family chapel in the houses of the Romans, devoted to a special divinity.
Sacrarium (n.) The adytum of a temple.
Sacrarium (n.) In a Christian church, the sanctuary.
Sacrate (v. t.) To consecrate.
Sacration (n.) Consecration.
Sacre (n.) See Saker.
Sacre (v. t.) To consecrate; to make sacred.
Sacred (a.) Set apart by solemn religious ceremony; especially, in a good sense, made holy; set apart to religious use; consecrated; not profane or common; as, a sacred place; a sacred day; sacred service.
Sacred (a.) Relating to religion, or to the services of religion; not secular; religious; as, sacred history.
Sacred (a.) Designated or exalted by a divine sanction; possessing the highest title to obedience, honor, reverence, or veneration; entitled to extreme reverence; venerable.
Sacred (a.) Hence, not to be profaned or violated; inviolable.
Sacred (a.) Consecrated; dedicated; devoted; -- with to.
Sacred (a.) Solemnly devoted, in a bad sense, as to evil, vengeance, curse, or the like; accursed; baleful.
Sacrific (a.) Alt. of Sacrifical
Sacrifical (a.) Employed in sacrifice.
Sacrificable (a.) Capable of being offered in sacrifice.
Sacrificant (n.) One who offers a sacrifice.
Sacrificator (n.) A sacrificer; one who offers a sacrifice.
Sacrificatory (n.) Offering sacrifice.
Sacrifice (n.) The offering of anything to God, or to a god; consecratory rite.
Sacrifice (n.) Anything consecrated and offered to God, or to a divinity; an immolated victim, or an offering of any kind, laid upon an altar, or otherwise presented in the way of religious thanksgiving, atonement, or conciliation.
Sacrifice (n.) Destruction or surrender of anything for the sake of something else; devotion of some desirable object in behalf of a higher object, or to a claim deemed more pressing; hence, also, the thing so devoted or given up; as, the sacrifice of interest to pleasure, or of pleasure to interest.
Sacrifice (n.) A sale at a price less than the cost or the actual value.
Sacrificed (imp. & p. p.) of Sacrifice
Sacrificing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sacrifice
Sacrifice (n.) To make an offering of; to consecrate or present to a divinity by way of expiation or propitiation, or as a token acknowledgment or thanksgiving; to immolate on the altar of God, in order to atone for sin, to procure favor, or to express thankfulness; as, to sacrifice an ox or a sheep.
Sacrifice (n.) Hence, to destroy, surrender, or suffer to be lost, for the sake of obtaining something; to give up in favor of a higher or more imperative object or duty; to devote, with loss or suffering.
Sacrifice (n.) To destroy; to kill.
Sacrifice (n.) To sell at a price less than the cost or the actual value.
Sacrifice (v. i.) To make offerings to God, or to a deity, of things consumed on the altar; to offer sacrifice.
Sacrificer (n.) One who sacrifices.
Sacrificial (a.) Of or pertaining to sacrifice or sacrifices; consisting in sacrifice; performing sacrifice.
Sacrilege (n.) The sin or crime of violating or profaning sacred things; the alienating to laymen, or to common purposes, what has been appropriated or consecrated to religious persons or uses.
Sacrilegious (a.) Violating sacred things; polluted with sacrilege; involving sacrilege; profane; impious.
Sacrilegist (n.) One guilty of sacrilege.
Sacring () a. & n. from Sacre.
Sacrist (n.) A sacristan; also, a person retained in a cathedral to copy out music for the choir, and take care of the books.
Sacristan (n.) An officer of the church who has the care of the utensils or movables, and of the church in general; a sexton.
Sacristies (pl. ) of Sacristy
Sacristy (n.) An apartment in a church where the sacred utensils, vestments, etc., are kept; a vestry.
Sacro- () A combining form denoting connection with, or relation to, the sacrum, as in sacro-coccygeal, sacro-iliac, sacrosciatic.
Sacrosanct (a.) Sacred; inviolable.
Sacrosciatic (a.) Of or pertaining to both the sacrum and the hip; as, the sacrosciatic foramina formed by the sacrosciatic ligaments which connect the sacrum and the hip bone.
Sacrovertebral (a.) Of or pertaining to the sacrum and that part of the vertebral column immediately anterior to it; as, the sacrovertebral angle.
sacra (pl. ) of Sacrum
Sacrum (n.) That part of the vertebral column which is directly connected with, or forms a part of, the pelvis.
Sacs (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians, which, together with the Foxes, formerly occupied the region about Green Bay, Wisconsin.
Sad (supperl.) Sated; satisfied; weary; tired.
Sad (supperl.) Heavy; weighty; ponderous; close; hard.
Sad (supperl.) Dull; grave; dark; somber; -- said of colors.
Sad (supperl.) Serious; grave; sober; steadfast; not light or frivolous.
Sad (supperl.) Affected with grief or unhappiness; cast down with affliction; downcast; gloomy; mournful.
Sad (supperl.) Afflictive; calamitous; causing sorrow; as, a sad accident; a sad misfortune.
Sad (supperl.) Hence, bad; naughty; troublesome; wicked.
Sad (v. t.) To make sorrowful; to sadden.
Sadda (n.) A work in the Persian tongue, being a summary of the Zend-Avesta, or sacred books.
Saddened (imp. & p. p.) of Sadden
Saddening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sadden
Sadden (v. t.) To make sad.
Sadden (v. t.) To render heavy or cohesive.
Sadden (v. t.) To make dull- or sad-colored, as cloth.
Sadden (v. t.) To make grave or serious; to make melancholy or sorrowful.
Sadden (v. i.) To become, or be made, sad.
Sadder (n.) Same as Sadda.
Saddle (n.) A seat for a rider, -- usually made of leather, padded to span comfortably a horse's back, furnished with stirrups for the rider's feet to rest in, and fastened in place with a girth; also, a seat for the rider on a bicycle or tricycle.
Saddle (n.) A padded part of a harness which is worn on a horse's back, being fastened in place with a girth. It serves various purposes, as to keep the breeching in place, carry guides for the reins, etc.
Saddle (n.) A piece of meat containing a part of the backbone of an animal with the ribs on each side; as, a saddle of mutton, of venison, etc.
Saddle (n.) A block of wood, usually fastened to some spar, and shaped to receive the end of another spar.
Saddle (n.) A part, as a flange, which is hollowed out to fit upon a convex surface and serve as a means of attachment or support.
Saddle (n.) The clitellus of an earthworm.
Saddle (n.) The threshold of a door, when a separate piece from the floor or landing; -- so called because it spans and covers the joint between two floors.
Saddled (imp. & p. p.) of Saddle
Saddling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Saddle
Saddle (v. t.) To put a saddle upon; to equip (a beast) for riding.
Saddle (v. t.) Hence: To fix as a charge or burden upon; to load; to encumber; as, to saddle a town with the expense of bridges and highways.
Saddleback (a.) Same as Saddle-backed.
Saddleback (n.) Anything saddle-backed; esp., a hill or ridge having a concave outline at the top.
Saddleback (n.) The harp seal.
Saddleback (n.) The great blackbacked gull (Larus marinus).
Saddleback (n.) The larva of a bombycid moth (Empretia stimulea) which has a large, bright green, saddle-shaped patch of color on the back.
Saddle-backed (a.) Having the outline of the upper part concave like the seat of a saddle.
Saddle-backed (a.) Having a low back and high neck, as a horse.
Saddlebags (n. pl.) Bags, usually of leather, united by straps or a band, formerly much used by horseback riders to carry small articles, one bag hanging on each side.
Saddlebow (n.) The bow or arch in the front part of a saddle, or the pieces which form the front.
Saddlecloth (n.) A cloth under a saddle, and extending out behind; a housing.
Saddled (a.) Having a broad patch of color across the back, like a saddle; saddle-backed.
Saddler (n.) One who makes saddles.
Saddler (n.) A harp seal.
Saddlery (n.) The materials for making saddles and harnesses; the articles usually offered for sale in a saddler's shop.
Saddlery (n.) The trade or employment of a saddler.
Saddle-shaped (a.) Shaped like a saddle.
Saddle-shaped (a.) Bent down at the sides so as to give the upper part a rounded form.
Saddle-shaped (a.) Bent on each side of a mountain or ridge, without being broken at top; -- said of strata.
Saddletree (n.) The frame of a saddle.
Sadducaic (a.) Pertaining to, or like, the Sadducees; as, Sadducaic reasonings.
Sadducee (n.) One of a sect among the ancient Jews, who denied the resurrection, a future state, and the existence of angels.
Sadduceeism (n.) Alt. of Sadducism
Sadducism (n.) The tenets of the Sadducees.
Sadducized (imp. & p. p.) of Sadducize
Sadducizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sadducize
Sadducize (v. i.) To adopt the principles of the Sadducees.
Sadh (n.) A member of a monotheistic sect of Hindoos. Sadhs resemble the Quakers in many respects.
Sadiron (n.) An iron for smoothing clothes; a flatiron.
Sadly (adv.) Wearily; heavily; firmly.
Sadly (adv.) Seriously; soberly; gravely.
Sadly (adv.) Grievously; deeply; sorrowfully; miserably.
Sadness (n.) Heaviness; firmness.
Sadness (n.) Seriousness; gravity; discretion.
Sadness (n.) Quality of being sad, or unhappy; gloominess; sorrowfulness; dejection.
Sadr (n.) A plant of the genus Ziziphus (Z. lotus); -- so called by the Arabs of Barbary, who use its berries for food. See Lotus (b).
Saengerfest (n.) A festival of singers; a German singing festival.
Safe (superl.) Free from harm, injury, or risk; untouched or unthreatened by danger or injury; unharmed; unhurt; secure; whole; as, safe from disease; safe from storms; safe from foes.
Safe (superl.) Conferring safety; securing from harm; not exposing to danger; confining securely; to be relied upon; not dangerous; as, a safe harbor; a safe bridge, etc.
Safe (superl.) Incapable of doing harm; no longer dangerous; in secure care or custody; as, the prisoner is safe.
Safe (n.) A place for keeping things in safety.
Safe (n.) A strong and fireproof receptacle (as a movable chest of steel, etc., or a closet or vault of brickwork) for containing money, valuable papers, or the like.
Safe (n.) A ventilated or refrigerated chest or closet for securing provisions from noxious animals or insects.
Safe (v. t.) To render safe; to make right.
Safe-conduct (n.) That which gives a safe passage
Safe-conduct (n.) a convoy or guard to protect a person in an enemy's country or a foreign country
Safe-conduct (n.) a writing, pass, or warrant of security, given to a person to enable him to travel with safety.
Safe-conduct (v. t.) To conduct safely; to give safe-conduct to.
Safeguard (n.) One who, or that which, defends or protects; defense; protection.
Safeguard (n.) A convoy or guard to protect a traveler or property.
Safeguard (n.) A pass; a passport; a safe-conduct.
Safeguard (v. t.) To guard; to protect.
Safe-keeping (n.) The act of keeping or preserving in safety from injury or from escape; care; custody.
Safely (adv.) In a safe manner; danger, injury, loss, or evil consequences.
Safeness (n.) The quality or state of being safe; freedom from hazard, danger, harm, or loss; safety; security; as the safeness of an experiment, of a journey, or of a possession.
Safe-pledge (n.) A surety for the appearance of a person at a given time.
Safety (n.) The condition or state of being safe; freedom from danger or hazard; exemption from hurt, injury, or loss.
Safety (n.) Freedom from whatever exposes one to danger or from liability to cause danger or harm; safeness; hence, the quality of making safe or secure, or of giving confidence, justifying trust, insuring against harm or loss, etc.
Safety (n.) Preservation from escape; close custody.
Safety (n.) Same as Safety touchdown, below.
Safflow (n.) The safflower.
Safflower (n.) An annual composite plant (Carthamus tinctorius), the flowers of which are used as a dyestuff and in making rouge; bastard, or false, saffron.
Safflower (n.) The dried flowers of the Carthamus tinctorius.
Safflower (n.) A dyestuff from these flowers. See Safranin (b).
Saffron (n.) A bulbous iridaceous plant (Crocus sativus) having blue flowers with large yellow stigmas. See Crocus.
Saffron (n.) The aromatic, pungent, dried stigmas, usually with part of the stile, of the Crocus sativus. Saffron is used in cookery, and in coloring confectionery, liquors, varnishes, etc., and was formerly much used in medicine.
Saffron (n.) An orange or deep yellow color, like that of the stigmas of the Crocus sativus.
Saffron (a.) Having the color of the stigmas of saffron flowers; deep orange-yellow; as, a saffron face; a saffron streamer.
Saffron (v. t.) To give color and flavor to, as by means of saffron; to spice.
Saffrony (a.) Having a color somewhat like saffron; yellowish.
Safranin (n.) An orange-red dyestuff extracted from the saffron.
Safranin (n.) A red dyestuff extracted from the safflower, and formerly used in dyeing wool, silk, and cotton pink and scarlet; -- called also Spanish red, China lake, and carthamin.
Safranin (n.) An orange-red dyestuff prepared from certain nitro compounds of creosol, and used as a substitute for the safflower dye.
Safranine (n.) An orange-red nitrogenous dyestuff produced artificially by oxidizing certain aniline derivatives, and used in dyeing silk and wool; also, any one of the series of which safranine proper is the type.
Sagged (imp. & p. p.) of Sag
Sagging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sag
Sag (v. i.) To sink, in the middle, by its weight or under applied pressure, below a horizontal line or plane; as, a line or cable supported by its ends sags, though tightly drawn; the floor of a room sags; hence, to lean, give way, or settle from a vertical position; as, a building may sag one way or another; a door sags on its hinges.
Sag (v. i.) Fig.: To lose firmness or elasticity; to sink; to droop; to flag; to bend; to yield, as the mind or spirits, under the pressure of care, trouble, doubt, or the like; to be unsettled or unbalanced.
Sag (v. i.) To loiter in walking; to idle along; to drag or droop heavily.
Sag (v. t.) To cause to bend or give way; to load.
Sag (n.) State of sinking or bending; sagging.
Sagas (pl. ) of Saga
Saga (n.) A Scandinavian legend, or heroic or mythic tradition, among the Norsemen and kindred people; a northern European popular historical or religious tale of olden time.
Sagacious (a.) Of quick sense perceptions; keen-scented; skilled in following a trail.
Sagacious (a.) Hence, of quick intellectual perceptions; of keen penetration and judgment; discerning and judicious; knowing; far-sighted; shrewd; sage; wise; as, a sagacious man; a sagacious remark.
Sagacity (n.) The quality of being sagacious; quickness or acuteness of sense perceptions; keenness of discernment or penetration with soundness of judgment; shrewdness.
Sagamore (n.) The head of a tribe among the American Indians; a chief; -- generally used as synonymous with sachem, but some writters distinguished between them, making the sachem a chief of the first rank, and a sagamore one of the second rank.
Sagamore (n.) A juice used in medicine.
Sagapen (n.) Sagapenum.
Sagapenum (n.) A fetid gum resin obtained from a species of Ferula. It has been used in hysteria, etc., but is now seldom met with.
Sagathy (n.) A mixed woven fabric of silk and cotton, or silk and wool; sayette; also, a light woolen fabric.
Sage (n.) A suffruticose labiate plant (Salvia officinalis) with grayish green foliage, much used in flavoring meats, etc. The name is often extended to the whole genus, of which many species are cultivated for ornament, as the scarlet sage, and Mexican red and blue sage.
Sage (n.) The sagebrush.
Sage (superl.) Having nice discernment and powers of judging; prudent; grave; sagacious.
Sage (superl.) Proceeding from wisdom; well judged; shrewd; well adapted to the purpose.
Sage (superl.) Grave; serious; solemn.
Sage (n.) A wise man; a man of gravity and wisdom; especially, a man venerable for years, and of sound judgment and prudence; a grave philosopher.
Sagebrush (n.) A low irregular shrub (Artemisia tridentata), of the order Compositae, covering vast tracts of the dry alkaline regions of the American plains; -- called also sagebush, and wild sage.
Sagely (adv.) In a sage manner; wisely.
Sagene (n.) A Russian measure of length equal to about seven English feet.
Sageness (n.) The quality or state of being sage; wisdom; sagacity; prudence; gravity.
Sagenite (n.) Acicular rutile occurring in reticulated forms imbedded in quartz.
Sagenitic (a.) Resembling sagenite; -- applied to quartz when containing acicular crystals of other minerals, most commonly rutile, also tourmaline, actinolite, and the like.
Sagger (n.) A pot or case of fire clay, in which fine stoneware is inclosed while baking in the kiln; a seggar.
Sagger (n.) The clay of which such pots or cases are made.
Sagging (n.) A bending or sinking between the ends of a thing, in consequence of its own, or an imposed, weight; an arching downward in the middle, as of a ship after straining. Cf. Hogging.
Saginate (v. t.) To make fat; to pamper.
Sagination (n.) The act of fattening or pampering.
Sagitta (n.) A small constellation north of Aquila; the Arrow.
Sagitta (n.) The keystone of an arch.
Sagitta (n.) The distance from a point in a curve to the chord; also, the versed sine of an arc; -- so called from its resemblance to an arrow resting on the bow and string.
Sagitta (n.) The larger of the two otoliths, or ear bones, found in most fishes.
Sagitta (n.) A genus of transparent, free-swimming marine worms having lateral and caudal fins, and capable of swimming rapidly. It is the type of the class Chaetognatha.
Sagittal (a.) Of or pertaining to an arrow; resembling an arrow; furnished with an arrowlike appendage.
Sagittal (a.) Of or pertaining to the sagittal suture; in the region of the sagittal suture; rabdoidal; as, the sagittal furrow, or groove, on the inner surface of the roof of the skull.
Sagittal (a.) In the mesial plane; mesial; as, a sagittal section of an animal.
Sagittarius (n.) The ninth of the twelve signs of the zodiac, which the sun enters about November 22, marked thus [/] in almanacs; the Archer.
Sagittarius (n.) A zodiacal constellation, represented on maps and globes as a centaur shooting an arrow.
Sagittary (n.) A centaur; a fabulous being, half man, half horse, armed with a bow and quiver.
Sagittary (n.) The Arsenal in Venice; -- so called from having a figure of an archer over the door.
Sagittary (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, an arrow.
Sagittate (a.) Shaped like an arrowhead; triangular, with the two basal angles prolonged downward.
Sagittated (a.) Sagittal; sagittate.
Sagittocyst (n.) A defensive cell containing a minute rodlike structure which may be expelled. Such cells are found in certain Turbellaria.
Sago (n.) A dry granulated starch imported from the East Indies, much used for making puddings and as an article of diet for the sick; also, as starch, for stiffening textile fabrics. It is prepared from the stems of several East Indian and Malayan palm trees, but chiefly from the Metroxylon Sagu; also from several cycadaceous plants (Cycas revoluta, Zamia integrifolia, etc.).
Sagoin (n.) A marmoset; -- called also sagouin.
Saga (pl. ) of Sagum
Sagum (n.) The military cloak of the Roman soldiers.
Sagus (n.) A genus of palms from which sago is obtained.
Sagy (a.) Full of sage; seasoned with sage.
Sahib (n.) Alt. of Saheb
Saheb (n.) A respectful title or appellation given to Europeans of rank.
Sahibah (n.) A lady; mistress.
Sahidic (a.) Same as Thebaic.
Sahlite (n.) See Salite.
Sahui (n.) A marmoset.
Sai (n.) See Capuchin, 3 (a).
Saibling (n.) A European mountain trout (Salvelinus alpinus); -- called also Bavarian charr.
Saic (n.) A kind of ketch very common in the Levant, which has neither topgallant sail nor mizzen topsail.
Said () imp. & p. p. of Say.
Said (a.) Before-mentioned; already spoken of or specified; aforesaid; -- used chiefly in legal style.
Saiga (n.) An antelope (Saiga Tartarica) native of the plains of Siberia and Eastern Russia. The male has erect annulated horns, and tufts of long hair beneath the eyes and ears.
Saikyr (n.) Same as Saker.
Sail (n.) An extent of canvas or other fabric by means of which the wind is made serviceable as a power for propelling vessels through the water.
Sail (n.) Anything resembling a sail, or regarded as a sail.
Sail (n.) A wing; a van.
Sail (n.) The extended surface of the arm of a windmill.
Sail (n.) A sailing vessel; a vessel of any kind; a craft.
Sail (n.) A passage by a sailing vessel; a journey or excursion upon the water.
Sailed (imp. & p. p.) of Sail
Sailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sail
Sail (n.) To be impelled or driven forward by the action of wind upon sails, as a ship on water; to be impelled on a body of water by the action of steam or other power.
Sail (n.) To move through or on the water; to swim, as a fish or a water fowl.
Sail (n.) To be conveyed in a vessel on water; to pass by water; as, they sailed from London to Canton.
Sail (n.) To set sail; to begin a voyage.
Sail (n.) To move smoothly through the air; to glide through the air without apparent exertion, as a bird.
Sail (v. t.) To pass or move upon, as in a ship, by means of sails; hence, to move or journey upon (the water) by means of steam or other force.
Sail (v. t.) To fly through; to glide or move smoothly through.
Sail (v. t.) To direct or manage the motion of, as a vessel; as, to sail one's own ship.
Sailable (a.) Capable of being sailed over; navigable; as, a sailable river.
Sailboat (n.) A boat propelled by a sail or sails.
Sailcloth (n.) Duck or canvas used in making sails.
Sailer (n.) A sailor.
Sailer (n.) A ship or other vessel; -- with qualifying words descriptive of speed or manner of sailing; as, a heavy sailer; a fast sailer.
Sailfish (n.) The banner fish, or spikefish (Histiophorus.)
Sailfish (n.) The basking, or liver, shark.
Sailfish (n.) The quillback.
Sailing (n.) The act of one who, or that which, sails; the motion of a vessel on water, impelled by wind or steam; the act of starting on a voyage.
Sailing (n.) The art of managing a vessel; seamanship; navigation; as, globular sailing; oblique sailing.
Sailless (a.) Destitute of sails.
Sailmaker (n.) One whose occupation is to make or repair sails.
Sailor (n.) One who follows the business of navigating ships or other vessels; one who understands the practical management of ships; one of the crew of a vessel; a mariner; a common seaman.
Saily (a.) Like a sail.
Saim (n.) Lard; grease.
Saimir (n.) The squirrel monkey.
Sain (p. p.) Said.
Sain (v. t.) To sanctify; to bless so as to protect from evil influence.
Sainfoin (n.) A leguminous plant (Onobrychis sativa) cultivated for fodder.
Sainfoin (n.) A kind of tick trefoil (Desmodium Canadense).
Saint (n.) A person sanctified; a holy or godly person; one eminent for piety and virtue; any true Christian, as being redeemed and consecrated to God.
Saint (n.) One of the blessed in heaven.
Saint (n.) One canonized by the church.
Sainted (imp. & p. p.) of Saint
Sainting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Saint
Saint (v. t.) To make a saint of; to enroll among the saints by an offical act, as of the pope; to canonize; to give the title or reputation of a saint to (some one).
Saint (v. i.) To act or live as a saint.
Saintdom (n.) The state or character of a saint.
Sainted (a.) Consecrated; sacred; holy; pious.
Sainted (a.) Entered into heaven; -- a euphemism for dead.
Saintess (n.) A female saint.
Sainthood (n.) The state of being a saint; the condition of a saint.
Sainthood (n.) The order, or united body, of saints; saints, considered collectively.
Saintish (a.) Somewhat saintlike; -- used ironically.
Saintism (n.) The character or quality of saints; also, hypocritical pretense of holiness.
Saintlike (a.) Resembling a saint; suiting a saint; becoming a saint; saintly.
Saintliness (n.) Quality of being saintly.
Saintly (superl.) Like a saint; becoming a holy person.
Saintologist (n.) One who writes the lives of saints.
Saintship (n.) The character or qualities of a saint.
Saint-Simonian (n.) A follower of the Count de St. Simon, who died in 1825, and who maintained that the principle of property held in common, and the just division of the fruits of common labor among the members of society, are the true remedy for the social evils which exist.
Saint-Simonianism (n.) The principles, doctrines, or practice of the Saint-Simonians; -- called also Saint- Simonism.
Saith () 3d pers. sing. pres. of Say.
Saithe (n.) The pollock, or coalfish; -- called also sillock.
Saiva (n.) One of an important religious sect in India which regards Siva with peculiar veneration.
Saivism (n.) The worship of Siva.
Sajene (n.) Same as Sagene.
Sajou (n.) Same as Sapajou.
Sake (n.) Final cause; end; purpose of obtaining; cause; motive; reason; interest; concern; account; regard or respect; -- used chiefly in such phrases as, for the sake of, for his sake, for man's sake, for mercy's sake, and the like; as, to commit crime for the sake of gain; to go abroad for the sake of one's health.
Saker (n.) A falcon (Falco sacer) native of Southern Europe and Asia, closely resembling the lanner.
Saker (n.) The peregrine falcon.
Saker (n.) A small piece of artillery.
Sakeret (n.) The male of the saker (a).
Saki (n.) Any one of several species of South American monkeys of the genus Pithecia. They have large ears, and a long hairy tail which is not prehensile.
Saki (n.) The alcoholic drink of Japan. It is made from rice.
Sakti (n.) The divine energy, personified as the wife of a deity (Brahma, Vishnu, Siva, etc.); the female principle.
Sal (n.) An East Indian timber tree (Shorea robusta), much used for building purposes. It is of a light brown color, close-grained, heavy, and durable.
Sal (n.) Salt.
Salaam (n.) Same as Salam.
Salaam (v. i.) To make or perform a salam.
Salability (n.) The quality or condition of being salable; salableness.
Salable (a.) Capable of being sold; fit to be sold; finding a ready market.
Salacious (n.) Having a propensity to venery; lustful; lecherous.
Salacity (n.) Strong propensity to venery; lust; lecherousness.
Salad (n.) A preparation of vegetables, as lettuce, celery, water cress, onions, etc., usually dressed with salt, vinegar, oil, and spice, and eaten for giving a relish to other food; as, lettuce salad; tomato salad, etc.
Salad (n.) A dish composed of chopped meat or fish, esp. chicken or lobster, mixed with lettuce or other vegetables, and seasoned with oil, vinegar, mustard, and other condiments; as, chicken salad; lobster salad.
Salade (n.) A helmet. See Sallet.
Salading (n.) Vegetables for salad.
Salaeratus (n.) See Saleratus.
Salagane (n.) The esculent swallow. See under Esculent.
Salal-berry (n.) The edible fruit of the Gaultheria Shallon, an ericaceous shrub found from California northwards. The berries are about the size of a common grape and of a dark purple color.
Salam (n.) A salutation or compliment of ceremony in the east by word or act; an obeisance, performed by bowing very low and placing the right palm on the forehead.
Salamander (n.) Any one of numerous species of Urodela, belonging to Salamandra, Amblystoma, Plethodon, and various allied genera, especially those that are more or less terrestrial in their habits.
Salamander (n.) The pouched gopher (Geomys tuza) of the Southern United States.
Salamander (n.) A culinary utensil of metal with a plate or disk which is heated, and held over pastry, etc., to brown it.
Salamander (n.) A large poker.
Salamander (n.) Solidified material in a furnace hearth.
Salamandrina (n.) A suborder of Urodela, comprising salamanders.
Salamandrine (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a salamander; enduring fire.
Salamandroid (a.) Like or pertaining to the salamanders.
Salamandroidea (n. pl.) A division of Amphibia including the Salamanders and allied groups; the Urodela.
Salamstone (n.) A kind of blue sapphire brought from Ceylon.
Salangana (n.) The salagane.
Salaried (a.) Receiving a salary; paid by a salary; having a salary attached; as, a salaried officer; a salaried office.
Salary (a.) Saline
Salaries (pl. ) of Salary
Salary (n.) The recompense or consideration paid, or stipulated to be paid, to a person at regular intervals for services; fixed wages, as by the year, quarter, or month; stipend; hire.
Salaried (imp. & p. p.) of Salary
Salarying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Salary
Salary (v. t.) To pay, or agree to pay, a salary to; to attach salary to; as, to salary a clerk; to salary a position.
Sale (n.) See 1st Sallow.
Sale (v. t.) The act of selling; the transfer of property, or a contract to transfer the ownership of property, from one person to another for a valuable consideration, or for a price in money.
Sale (v. t.) Opportunity of selling; demand; market.
Sale (v. t.) Public disposal to the highest bidder, or exposure of goods in market; auction.
Saleable (adv.) Alt. of Saleably
Saleably (adv.) See Salable, Salably, etc.
Saleb (n.) See Salep.
Salebrosity (n.) Roughness or ruggedness.
Salebrous (a.) Rough; rugged.
Salep (n.) The dried tubers of various species of Orchis, and Eulophia. It is used to make a nutritious beverage by treating the powdered preparation with hot water.
Saleratus (n.) Aerated salt; a white crystalline substance having an alkaline taste and reaction, consisting of sodium bicarbonate (see under Sodium.) It is largely used in cooking, with sour milk (lactic acid) or cream of tartar as a substitute for yeast. It is also an ingredient of most baking powders, and is used in the preparation of effervescing drinks.
Salesmen (pl. ) of Salesman
Salesman (n.) One who sells anything; one whose occupation is to sell goods or merchandise.
Saleswomen (pl. ) of Saleswoman
Saleswoman (n.) A woman whose occupation is to sell goods or merchandise.
Salework (n.) Work or things made for sale; hence, work done carelessly or slightingly.
Salian (a.) Denoting a tribe of Franks who established themselves early in the fourth century on the river Sala [now Yssel]; Salic.
Salian (n.) A Salian Frank.
Saliant (a.) Same as Salient.
Saliaunce (a.) Salience; onslaught.
Salic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Salian Franks, or to the Salic law so called.
Salicaceous (a.) Belonging or relating to the willow.
Salicin (n.) A glucoside found in the bark and leaves of several species of willow (Salix) and poplar, and extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance.
Salicyl (n.) The hypothetical radical of salicylic acid and of certain related compounds.
Salicylal (n.) A thin, fragrant, colorless oil, HO.C6H4.CHO, found in the flowers of meadow sweet (Spiraea), and also obtained by oxidation of salicin, saligenin, etc. It reddens on exposure. Called also salicylol, salicylic aldehyde, and formerly salicylous, / spiroylous, acid.
Salicylate (n.) A salt of salicylic acid.
Salicylic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid formerly obtained by fusing salicin with potassium hydroxide, and now made in large quantities from phenol (carbolic acid) by the action of carbon dioxide on heated sodium phenolate. It is a white crystalline substance. It is used as an antiseptic, and in its salts in the treatment of rheumatism. Called also hydroxybenzoic acid.
Salicylide (n.) A white crystalline substance obtained by dehydration of salicylic acid.
Salicylite (n.) A compound of salicylal; -- named after the analogy of a salt.
Salicylol (n.) Same as Salicylal.
Salicylous (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a substance formerly called salicylous acid, and now salicylal.
Salience (n.) The quality or condition of being salient; a leaping; a springing forward; an assaulting.
Salience (n.) The quality or state of projecting, or being projected; projection; protrusion.
Saliency (n.) Quality of being salient; hence, vigor.
Salient (v. i.) Moving by leaps or springs; leaping; bounding; jumping.
Salient (v. i.) Shooting out or up; springing; projecting.
Salient (v. i.) Hence, figuratively, forcing itself on the attention; prominent; conspicuous; noticeable.
Salient (v. i.) Projecting outwardly; as, a salient angle; -- opposed to reentering. See Illust. of Bastion.
Salient (v. i.) Represented in a leaping position; as, a lion salient.
Salient (a.) A salient angle or part; a projection.
Saliently (adv.) In a salient manner.
Saliferous (a.) Producing, or impregnated with, salt.
Salifiable (a.) Capable of neutralizing an acid to form a salt; -- said of bases; thus, ammonia is salifiable.
Salification (n.) The act, process, or result of salifying; the state of being salified.
Salified (imp. & p. p.) of Salify
Salifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Salify
Salify (v. t.) To combine or impregnate with a salt.
Salify (v. t.) To form a salt with; to convert into a salt; as, to salify a base or an acid.
Saligenin (n.) A phenol alcohol obtained, by the decomposition of salicin, as a white crystalline substance; -- called also hydroxy-benzyl alcohol.
Saligot (n.) The water chestnut (Trapa natans).
Salimeter (n.) An instrument for measuring the amount of salt present in any given solution.
Salimetry (n.) The art or process of measuring the amount of salt in a substance.
Salina (a.) A salt marsh, or salt pond, inclosed from the sea.
Salina (a.) Salt works.
Salina period () The period in which the American Upper Silurian system, containing the brine-producing rocks of central New York, was formed. See the Chart of Geology.
Salination (n.) The act of washing with salt water.
Saline (a.) Consisting of salt, or containing salt; as, saline particles; saline substances; a saline cathartic.
Saline (a.) Of the quality of salt; salty; as, a saline taste.
Saline (a.) A salt spring; a place where salt water is collected in the earth.
Saline (n.) A crude potash obtained from beet-root residues and other similar sources.
Saline (n.) A metallic salt; esp., a salt of potassium, sodium, lithium, or magnesium, used in medicine.
Salineness (n.) The quality or state of being salt; saltness.
Saliniferous (a.) Same as Saliferous.
Saliniform (a.) Having the form or the qualities of a salt, especially of common salt.
Salinity (n.) Salineness.
Salinometer (n.) A salimeter.
Salinous (a.) Saline.
Salique (a.) Salic.
Saliretin (n.) A yellow amorphous resinoid substance obtained by the action of dilute acids on saligenin.
Salisburia (n.) The ginkgo tree (Ginkgo biloba, or Salisburia adiantifolia).
Salite (v. t.) To season with salt; to salt.
Salite (n.) A massive lamellar variety of pyroxene, of a dingy green color.
Saliva (n.) The secretion from the salivary glands.
Salival (a.) Salivary.
Salivant (a.) Producing salivation.
Salivant (n.) That which produces salivation.
Salivary (a.) Of or pertaining to saliva; producing or carrying saliva; as, the salivary ferment; the salivary glands; the salivary ducts, etc.
Salivated (imp. & p. p.) of Salivate
Salivating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Salivate
Salivate (v. t.) To produce an abnormal flow of saliva in; to produce salivation or ptyalism in, as by the use of mercury.
Salivate (v. i.) To produce saliva, esp. in excess.
Salivation (n.) The act or process of salivating; an excessive secretion of saliva, often accompanied with soreness of the mouth and gums; ptyalism.
Salivous (a.) Pertaining to saliva; of the nature of saliva.
Salices (pl. ) of Salix
Salix (n.) A genus of trees or shrubs including the willow, osier, and the like, growing usually in wet grounds.
Salix (n.) A tree or shrub of any kind of willow.
Sallenders (n. pl.) An eruption on the hind leg of a horse.
Sallet (n.) A light kind of helmet, with or without a visor, introduced during the 15th century.
Sallet (n.) Alt. of Salleting
Salleting (n.) Salad.
Salliance (n.) Salience.
Sallow (n.) The willow; willow twigs.
Sallow (n.) A name given to certain species of willow, especially those which do not have flexible shoots, as Salix caprea, S. cinerea, etc.
Sallow (superl.) Having a yellowish color; of a pale, sickly color, tinged with yellow; as, a sallow skin.
Sallow (v. t.) To tinge with sallowness.
Sallowish (a.) Somewhat sallow.
Sallowness (n.) The quality or condition of being sallow.
Sallied (imp. & p. p.) of Sally
Sallying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sally
Sally (v. i.) To leap or rush out; to burst forth; to issue suddenly; as a body of troops from a fortified place to attack besiegers; to make a sally.
Sallies (pl. ) of Sally
Sally (v.) A leaping forth; a darting; a spring.
Sally (v.) A rushing or bursting forth; a quick issue; a sudden eruption; specifically, an issuing of troops from a place besieged to attack the besiegers; a sortie.
Sally (v.) An excursion from the usual track; range; digression; deviation.
Sally (v.) A flight of fancy, liveliness, wit, or the like; a flashing forth of a quick and active mind.
Sally (v.) Transgression of the limits of soberness or steadiness; act of levity; wild gayety; frolic; escapade.
Sally Lunn () A tea cake slighty sweetened, and raised with yeast, baked in the form of biscuits or in a thin loaf, and eaten hot with butter.
Sallyman (n.) The velella; -- called also saleeman.
Salm (n.) Psalm.
Salmagundi (n.) A mixture of chopped meat and pickled herring, with oil, vinegar, pepper, and onions.
Salmagundi (n.) Hence, a mixture of various ingredients; an olio or medley; a potpourri; a miscellany.
Salmi (n.) Same as Salmis.
Salmiac (n.) Sal ammoniac. See under Sal.
Salmis (n.) A ragout of partly roasted game stewed with sauce, wine, bread, and condiments suited to provoke appetite.
Salmons (pl. ) of Salmon
Salmon (pl. ) of Salmon
Salmon (v.) Any one of several species of fishes of the genus Salmo and allied genera. The common salmon (Salmo salar) of Northern Europe and Eastern North America, and the California salmon, or quinnat, are the most important species. They are extensively preserved for food. See Quinnat.
Salmon (v.) A reddish yellow or orange color, like the flesh of the salmon.
Salmon (a.) Of a reddish yellow or orange color, like that of the flesh of the salmon.
Salmonet (n.) A salmon of small size; a samlet.
Salmonoid (a.) Like, or pertaining to, the Salmonidae, a family of fishes including the trout and salmon.
Salmonoid (n.) Any fish of the family Salmonidae.
Salogen (n.) A halogen.
Salol (n.) A white crystalline substance consisting of phenol salicylate.
salometer (n.) See Salimeter.
Salomtry (n.) Salimetry.
Salon (n.) An apartment for the reception of company; hence, in the plural, fashionable parties; circles of fashionable society.
Saloon (n.) A spacious and elegant apartment for the reception of company or for works of art; a hall of reception, esp. a hall for public entertainments or amusements; a large room or parlor; as, the saloon of a steamboat.
Saloon (n.) Popularly, a public room for specific uses; esp., a barroom or grogshop; as, a drinking saloon; an eating saloon; a dancing saloon.
Saloop (n.) An aromatic drink prepared from sassafras bark and other ingredients, at one time much used in London.
Salp (n.) Any species of Salpa, or of the family Salpidae.
Salpae (pl. ) of Salpa
Salpas (pl. ) of Salpa
Salpa (n.) A genus of transparent, tubular, free-swimming oceanic tunicates found abundantly in all the warmer latitudes. See Illustration in Appendix.
Salpian (n.) Alt. of Salpid
Salpid (n.) A salpa.
Salpicon (n.) Chopped meat, bread, etc., used to stuff legs of veal or other joints; stuffing; farce.
Salpingitis (n.) Inflammation of the salpinx.
Salpinx (n.) The Eustachian tube, or the Fallopian tube.
Salsafy (n.) See Salsify.
Salsamentarious (a.) Salt; salted; saline.
Salse (n.) A mud volcano, the water of which is often impregnated with salts, whence the name.
Salsify (n.) See Oyster plant (a), under Oyster.
Salso-acid (a.) Having a taste compounded of saltness and acidity; both salt and acid.
Salsoda (n.) See Sal soda, under Sal.
Salsola (n.) A genus of plants including the glasswort. See Glasswort.
salsuginous (a.) Growing in brackish places or in salt marshes.
Salt (n.) The chloride of sodium, a substance used for seasoning food, for the preservation of meat, etc. It is found native in the earth, and is also produced, by evaporation and crystallization, from sea water and other water impregnated with saline particles.
Salt (n.) Hence, flavor; taste; savor; smack; seasoning.
Salt (n.) Hence, also, piquancy; wit; sense; as, Attic salt.
Salt (n.) A dish for salt at table; a saltcellar.
Salt (n.) A sailor; -- usually qualified by old.
Salt (n.) The neutral compound formed by the union of an acid and a base; thus, sulphuric acid and iron form the salt sulphate of iron or green vitriol.
Salt (n.) Fig.: That which preserves from corruption or error; that which purifies; a corrective; an antiseptic; also, an allowance or deduction; as, his statements must be taken with a grain of salt.
Salt (n.) Any mineral salt used as an aperient or cathartic, especially Epsom salts, Rochelle salt, or Glauber's salt.
Salt (n.) Marshes flooded by the tide.
Salt (n.) Of or relating to salt; abounding in, or containing, salt; prepared or preserved with, or tasting of, salt; salted; as, salt beef; salt water.
Salt (n.) Overflowed with, or growing in, salt water; as, a salt marsh; salt grass.
Salt (n.) Fig.: Bitter; sharp; pungent.
Salt (n.) Fig.: Salacious; lecherous; lustful.
Salted (imp. & p. p.) of Salt
Salting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Salt
Salt (v. t.) To sprinkle, impregnate, or season with salt; to preserve with salt or in brine; to supply with salt; as, to salt fish, beef, or pork; to salt cattle.
Salt (v. t.) To fill with salt between the timbers and planks, as a ship, for the preservation of the timber.
Salt (v. i.) To deposit salt as a saline solution; as, the brine begins to salt.
Salt (n.) The act of leaping or jumping; a leap.
Saltant (v.) Leaping; jumping; dancing.
Saltant (v.) In a leaping position; springing forward; -- applied especially to the squirrel, weasel, and rat, also to the cat, greyhound, monkey, etc.
Saltarella (n.) See Saltarello.
Saltarello (n.) A popular Italian dance in quick 3-4 or 6-8 time, running mostly in triplets, but with a hop step at the beginning of each measure. See Tarantella.
Saltate (v. i.) To leap or dance.
Saltation (n.) A leaping or jumping.
Saltation (n.) Beating or palpitation; as, the saltation of the great artery.
Saltation (n.) An abrupt and marked variation in the condition or appearance of a species; a sudden modification which may give rise to new races.
Saltatoria (n. pl.) A division of Orthoptera including grasshoppers, locusts, and crickets.
Saltatorial (a.) Relating to leaping; saltatory; as, saltatorial exercises.
Saltatorial (a.) Same as Saltatorious.
Saltatorial (a.) Of or pertaining to the Saltatoria.
Saltatorious (a.) Capable of leaping; formed for leaping; saltatory; as, a saltatorious insect or leg.
Saltatory (a.) Leaping or dancing; having the power of, or used in, leaping or dancing.
Saltbush (n.) An Australian plant (Atriplex nummularia) of the Goosefoot family.
Saltcat (n.) A mixture of salt, coarse meal, lime, etc., attractive to pigeons.
Saltcellar (n.) Formerly a large vessel, now a small vessel of glass or other material, used for holding salt on the table.
Salter (n.) One who makes, sells, or applies salt; one who salts meat or fish.
Saltern (n.) A building or place where salt is made by boiling or by evaporation; salt works.
Saltfoot (n.) A large saltcellar formerly placed near the center of the table. The superior guests were seated above the saltfoot.
Salt-green (a.) Sea-green in color.
Saltle (n.) The European dab.
Saltier (n.) See Saltire.
Saltigradae (n. pl.) A tribe of spiders including those which lie in wait and leap upon their prey; the leaping spiders.
Saltigrade (a.) Having feet or legs formed for leaping.
Saltigrade (n.) One of the Saltigradae, a tribe of spiders which leap to seize their prey.
Saltimbanco (n.) A mountebank; a quack.
Salting (n.) The act of sprinkling, impregnating, or furnishing, with salt.
Salting (n.) A salt marsh.
Saltire (v.) A St. Andrew's cross, or cross in the form of an X, -- one of the honorable ordinaries.
Saltirewise (adv.) In the manner of a saltire; -- said especially of the blazoning of a shield divided by two lines drawn in the direction of a bend and a bend sinister, and crossing at the center.
Saltish (a.) Somewhat salt.
Saltless (a.) Destitute of salt; insipid.
Saltly (adv.) With taste of salt; in a salt manner.
Saltmouth (n.) A wide-mouthed bottle with glass stopper for holding chemicals, especially crystallized salts.
Saltness (n.) The quality or state of being salt, or state of being salt, or impregnated with salt; salt taste; as, the saltness of sea water.
Saltpeter (n.) Alt. of Saltpetre
Saltpetre (n.) Potassium nitrate; niter; a white crystalline substance, KNO3, having a cooling saline taste, obtained by leaching from certain soils in which it is produced by the process of nitrification (see Nitrification, 2). It is a strong oxidizer, is the chief constituent of gunpowder, and is also used as an antiseptic in curing meat, and in medicine as a diuretic, diaphoretic, and refrigerant.
Saltpetrous (a.) Pertaining to saltpeter, or partaking of its qualities; impregnated with saltpeter.
Salt rheum () A popular name, esp. in the United States, for various cutaneous eruptions, particularly for those of eczema. See Eczema.
Saltwort (n.) A name given to several plants which grow on the seashore, as the Batis maritima, and the glasswort. See Glasswort.
Salty (a.) Somewhat salt; saltish.
Salubrious (a.) Favorable to health; healthful; promoting health; as, salubrious air, water, or climate.
Salubrity (n.) The quality of being salubrious; favorableness to the preservation of health; salubriousness; wholesomeness; healthfulness; as, the salubrity of the air, of a country, or a climate.
Salue (v. t.) To salute.
Salutary (a.) Wholesome; healthful; promoting health; as, salutary exercise.
Salutary (a.) Promotive of, or contributing to, some beneficial purpose; beneficial; advantageous; as, a salutary design.
Salutation (n.) The act of saluting, or paying respect or reverence, by the customary words or actions; the act of greeting, or expressing good will or courtesy; also, that which is uttered or done in saluting or greeting.
Salutatorian (n.) The student who pronounces the salutatory oration at the annual Commencement or like exercises of a college, -- an honor commonly assigned to that member of the graduating class who ranks second in scholarship.
Salutatorily (adv.) By way of salutation.
Salutatory (a.) Containing or expressing salutations; speaking a welcome; greeting; -- applied especially to the oration which introduces the exercises of the Commencements, or similar public exhibitions, in American colleges.
Salutatory (n.) A place for saluting or greeting; a vestibule; a porch.
Salutatory (n.) The salutatory oration.
Saluted (imp. & p. p.) of Salute
Saluting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Salute
Salute (v. t.) To address, as with expressions of kind wishes and courtesy; to greet; to hail.
Salute (v. t.) Hence, to give a sign of good will; to compliment by an act or ceremony, as a kiss, a bow, etc.
Salute (v. t.) To honor, as some day, person, or nation, by a discharge of cannon or small arms, by dipping colors, by cheers, etc.
Salute (v. t.) To promote the welfare and safety of; to benefit; to gratify.
Salute (v.) The act of saluting, or expressing kind wishes or respect; salutation; greeting.
Salute (v.) A sign, token, or ceremony, expressing good will, compliment, or respect, as a kiss, a bow, etc.
Salute (v.) A token of respect or honor for some distinguished or official personage, for a foreign vessel or flag, or for some festival or event, as by presenting arms, by a discharge of cannon, volleys of small arms, dipping the colors or the topsails, etc.
Saluter (n.) One who salutes.
Salutiferous (a.) Bringing health; healthy; salutary; beneficial; as, salutiferous air.
Salutiferously (adv.) Salutarily.
Salvability (n.) The quality or condition of being salvable; salvableness.
Salvable (a.) Capable of being saved; admitting of salvation.
Salvage (n.) The act of saving a vessel, goods, or life, from perils of the sea.
Salvage (n.) The compensation allowed to persons who voluntarily assist in saving a ship or her cargo from peril.
Salvage (n.) That part of the property that survives the peril and is saved.
Salvage (a. & n.) Savage.
Salvation (n.) The act of saving; preservation or deliverance from destruction, danger, or great calamity.
Salvation (n.) The redemption of man from the bondage of sin and liability to eternal death, and the conferring on him of everlasting happiness.
Salvation (n.) Saving power; that which saves.
Salvationist (n.) An evangelist, a member, or a recruit, of the Salvation Army.
Salvatory (n.) A place where things are preserved; a repository.
Salve (interj.) Hail!
Salve (v. t.) To say "Salve" to; to greet; to salute.
Salve (n.) An adhesive composition or substance to be applied to wounds or sores; a healing ointment.
Salve (n.) A soothing remedy or antidote.
Salved (imp. & p. p.) of Salve
Salving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Salve
Salve (n.) To heal by applications or medicaments; to cure by remedial treatment; to apply salve to; as, to salve a wound.
Salve (n.) To heal; to remedy; to cure; to make good; to soothe, as with an ointment, especially by some device, trick, or quibble; to gloss over.
Salve (v. t. & i.) To save, as a ship or goods, from the perils of the sea.
Salver (n.) One who salves, or uses salve as a remedy; hence, a quacksalver, or quack.
Salver (n.) A salvor.
Salver (n.) A tray or waiter on which anything is presented.
Salver-shaped (a.) Tubular, with a spreading border. See Hypocraterimorphous.
Salvia (n.) A genus of plants including the sage. See Sage.
Salvific (a.) Tending to save or secure safety.
Salvos (pl. ) of Salvo
Salvo (n.) An exception; a reservation; an excuse.
Salvo (n.) A concentrated fire from pieces of artillery, as in endeavoring to make a break in a fortification; a volley.
Salvo (n.) A salute paid by a simultaneous, or nearly simultaneous, firing of a number of cannon.
Salvor (n.) One who assists in saving a ship or goods at sea, without being under special obligation to do so.
Sam (a.) Together.
Samara (n.) A dry, indehiscent, usually one-seeded, winged fruit, as that of the ash, maple, and elm; a key or key fruit.
Samare (n.) See Simar.
Samaritan (a.) Of or pertaining to Samaria, in Palestine.
Samaritan (n.) A native or inhabitant of Samaria; also, the language of Samaria.
Samarium (n.) A rare metallic element of doubtful identity.
Samaroid (a.) Resembling a samara, or winged seed vessel.
Samarra (n.) See Simar.
Samarskite (a.) A rare mineral having a velvet-black color and submetallic luster. It is a niobate of uranium, iron, and the yttrium and cerium metals.
Sambo (n.) A colloquial or humorous appellation for a negro; sometimes, the offspring of a black person and a mulatto; a zambo.
Samboo (n.) Same as Sambur.
Sambucus (n.) A genus of shrubs and trees; the elder.
Sambuke (n.) An ancient stringed instrument used by the Greeks, the particular construction of which is unknown.
Sambur (n.) An East Indian deer (Rusa Aristotelis) having a mane on its neck. Its antlers have but three prongs. Called also gerow. The name is applied to other species of the genus Rusa, as the Bornean sambur (R. equina).
Same (v. i.) Not different or other; not another or others; identical; unchanged.
Same (v. i.) Of like kind, species, sort, dimensions, or the like; not differing in character or in the quality or qualities compared; corresponding; not discordant; similar; like.
Same (v. i.) Just mentioned, or just about to be mentioned.
Sameliness (n.) Sameness, 2.
Sameness (n.) The state of being the same; identity; absence of difference; near resemblance; correspondence; similarity; as, a sameness of person, of manner, of sound, of appearance, and the like.
Sameness (n.) Hence, want of variety; tedious monotony.
Samette (n.) See Samite.
Samian (a.) Of or pertaining to the island of Samos.
Samian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Samos.
Samiel (n.) A hot and destructive wind that sometimes blows, in Turkey, from the desert. It is identical with the simoom of Arabia and the kamsin of Syria.
Samiot (a. & n.) Samian.
Samite (a.) A species of silk stuff, or taffeta, generally interwoven with gold.
Samlet (n.) The parr.
Sammier (n.) A machine for pressing the water from skins in tanning.
Samoan (a.) Of or pertaining to the Samoan Islands (formerly called Navigators' Islands) in the South Pacific Ocean, or their inhabitants.
Samoan (n.) An inhabitant of the Samoan Islands.
Samovar (n.) A metal urn used in Russia for making tea. It is filled with water, which is heated by charcoal placed in a pipe, with chimney attached, which passes through the urn.
Samoyedes (n. pl.) An ignorant and degraded Turanian tribe which occupies a portion of Northern Russia and a part of Siberia.
Samp (n.) An article of food consisting of maize broken or bruised, which is cooked by boiling, and usually eaten with milk; coarse hominy.
Sampan (n.) A Chinese boat from twelve to fifteen feet long, covered with a house, and sometimes used as a permanent habitation on the inland waters.
Samphire (n.) A fleshy, suffrutescent, umbelliferous European plant (Crithmum maritimum). It grows among rocks and on cliffs along the seacoast, and is used for pickles.
Samphire (n.) The species of glasswort (Salicornia herbacea); -- called in England marsh samphire.
Samphire (n.) A seashore shrub (Borrichia arborescens) of the West Indies.
Sample (n.) Example; pattern.
Sample (n.) A part of anything presented for inspection, or shown as evidence of the quality of the whole; a specimen; as, goods are often purchased by samples.
Sample (v. t.) To make or show something similar to; to match.
Sample (v. t.) To take or to test a sample or samples of; as, to sample sugar, teas, wools, cloths.
Sampler (n.) One who makes up samples for inspection; one who examines samples, or by samples; as, a wool sampler.
Sampler (n.) A pattern; a specimen; especially, a collection of needlework patterns, as letters, borders, etc., to be used as samples, or to display the skill of the worker.
Samshoo (n.) Alt. of Samshu
Samshu (n.) A spirituous liquor distilled by the Chinese from the yeasty liquor in which boiled rice has fermented under pressure.
Samson (n.) An Israelite of Bible record (see Judges xiii.), distinguished for his great strength; hence, a man of extraordinary physical strength.
Sanability (n.) The quality or state of being sanable; sanableness; curableness.
Sanable (a.) Capable of being healed or cured; susceptible of remedy.
Sanableness (n.) The quality of being sanable.
Sanation (n.) The act of healing or curing.
Sanative (a.) Having the power to cure or heal; healing; tending to heal; sanatory.
Sanatorium (n.) An establishment for the treatment of the sick; a resort for invalids. See Sanitarium.
Sanatory (a.) Conducive to health; tending to cure; healing; curative; sanative.
Sanbenito (n.) Anciently, a sackcloth coat worn by penitents on being reconciled to the church.
Sanbenito (n.) A garnment or cap, or sometimes both, painted with flames, figures, etc., and worn by persons who had been examined by the Inquisition and were brought forth for punishment at the auto-da-fe.
Sance-bell (n.) Alt. of Sancte bell
Sancte bell (n.) See Sanctus bell, under Sanctus.
Sanctificate (v. t.) To sanctify.
Sanctification (n.) The act of sanctifying or making holy; the state of being sanctified or made holy;
Sanctification (n.) the act of God's grace by which the affections of men are purified, or alienated from sin and the world, and exalted to a supreme love to God; also, the state of being thus purified or sanctified.
Sanctification (n.) The act of consecrating, or of setting apart for a sacred purpose; consecration.
Sanctified (a.) Made holy; also, made to have the air of sanctity; sanctimonious.
Sanctifier (n.) One who sanctifies, or makes holy; specifically, the Holy Spirit.
Sanctified (imp. & p. p.) of Sanctify
Sanctifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sanctify
Sanctify (v. t.) To make sacred or holy; to set apart to a holy or religious use; to consecrate by appropriate rites; to hallow.
Sanctify (v. t.) To make free from sin; to cleanse from moral corruption and pollution; to purify.
Sanctify (v. t.) To make efficient as the means of holiness; to render productive of holiness or piety.
Sanctify (v. t.) To impart or impute sacredness, venerableness, inviolability, title to reverence and respect, or the like, to; to secure from violation; to give sanction to.
Sanctifyingly (adv.) In a manner or degree tending to sanctify or make holy.
Sanctiloquent (a.) Discoursing on heavenly or holy things, or in a holy manner.
Sanctimonial (a.) Sanctimonious.
Sanctimonious (a.) Possessing sanctimony; holy; sacred; saintly.
Sanctimonious (a.) Making a show of sanctity; affecting saintliness; hypocritically devout or pious.
Sanctimony (n.) Holiness; devoutness; scrupulous austerity; sanctity; especially, outward or artificial saintliness; assumed or pretended holiness; hypocritical devoutness.
Sanction (n.) Solemn or ceremonious ratification; an official act of a superior by which he ratifies and gives validity to the act of some other person or body; establishment or furtherance of anything by giving authority to it; confirmation; approbation.
Sanction (n.) Anything done or said to enforce the will, law, or authority of another; as, legal sanctions.
Sanctioned (imp. & p. p.) of Sanction
Sanctioning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sanction
Sanction (v. t.) To give sanction to; to ratify; to confirm; to approve.
Sanctionary (a.) Of, pertaining to, or giving, sanction.
Sanctitude (n.) Holiness; sacredness; sanctity.
Sanctities (pl. ) of Sanctity
Sanctity (n.) The state or quality of being sacred or holy; holiness; saintliness; moral purity; godliness.
Sanctity (n.) Sacredness; solemnity; inviolability; religious binding force; as, the sanctity of an oath.
Sanctity (n.) A saint or holy being.
Sanctuarize (v. t.) To shelter by means of a sanctuary or sacred privileges.
Sanctuaries (pl. ) of Sanctuary
Sanctuary (n.) A sacred place; a consecrated spot; a holy and inviolable site.
Sanctuary (n.) The most retired part of the temple at Jerusalem, called the Holy of Holies, in which was kept the ark of the covenant, and into which no person was permitted to enter except the high priest, and he only once a year, to intercede for the people; also, the most sacred part of the tabernacle; also, the temple at Jerusalem.
Sanctuary (n.) The most sacred part of any religious building, esp. that part of a Christian church in which the altar is placed.
Sanctuary (n.) A house consecrated to the worship of God; a place where divine service is performed; a church, temple, or other place of worship.
Sanctuary (n.) A sacred and inviolable asylum; a place of refuge and protection; shelter; refuge; protection.
Sanctum (n.) A sacred place; hence, a place of retreat; a room reserved for personal use; as, an editor's sanctum.
Sanctus (n.) A part of the Mass, or, in Protestant churches, a part of the communion service, of which the first words in Latin are Sanctus, sanctus, sanctus [Holy, holy, holy]; -- called also Tersanctus.
Sanctus (n.) An anthem composed for these words.
Sand (n.) Fine particles of stone, esp. of siliceous stone, but not reduced to dust; comminuted stone in the form of loose grains, which are not coherent when wet.
Sand (n.) A single particle of such stone.
Sand (n.) The sand in the hourglass; hence, a moment or interval of time; the term or extent of one's life.
Sand (n.) Tracts of land consisting of sand, like the deserts of Arabia and Africa; also, extensive tracts of sand exposed by the ebb of the tide.
Sand (n.) Courage; pluck; grit.
Sanded (imp. & p. p.) of Sand
Sanding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sand
Sand (v. t.) To sprinkle or cover with sand.
Sand (v. t.) To drive upon the sand.
Sand (v. t.) To bury (oysters) beneath drifting sand or mud.
Sand (v. t.) To mix with sand for purposes of fraud; as, to sand sugar.
Sandal (n.) Same as Sendal.
Sandal (n.) Sandalwood.
Sandal (n.) A kind of shoe consisting of a sole strapped to the foot; a protection for the foot, covering its lower surface, but not its upper.
Sandal (n.) A kind of slipper.
Sandal (n.) An overshoe with parallel openings across the instep.
Sandaled (a.) Wearing sandals.
Sandaled (a.) Made like a sandal.
Sandaliform (a.) Shaped like a sandal or slipper.
Sandalwood (n.) The highly perfumed yellowish heartwood of an East Indian and Polynesian tree (Santalum album), and of several other trees of the same genus, as the Hawaiian Santalum Freycinetianum and S. pyrularium, the Australian S. latifolium, etc. The name is extended to several other kinds of fragrant wood.
Sandalwood (n.) Any tree of the genus Santalum, or a tree which yields sandalwood.
Sandalwood (n.) The red wood of a kind of buckthorn, used in Russia for dyeing leather (Rhamnus Dahuricus).
Sandarach (n.) Alt. of Sandarac
Sandarac (n.) Realgar; red sulphide of arsenic.
Sandarac (n.) A white or yellow resin obtained from a Barbary tree (Callitris quadrivalvis or Thuya articulata), and pulverized for pounce; -- probably so called from a resemblance to the mineral.
Sandbagger (n.) An assaulter whose weapon is a sand bag. See Sand bag, under Sand.
Sand-blind (a.) Having defective sight; dim-sighted; purblind.
Sanded (a.) Covered or sprinkled with sand; sandy; barren.
Sanded (a.) Marked with small spots; variegated with spots; speckled; of a sandy color, as a hound.
Sanded (a.) Short-sighted.
Sandemanian (n.) A follower of Robert Sandeman, a Scotch sectary of the eighteenth century. See Glassite.
Sandemanianism (n.) The faith or system of the Sandemanians.
Sanderling (n.) A small gray and brown sandpiper (Calidris arenaria) very common on sandy beaches in America, Europe, and Asia. Called also curwillet, sand lark, stint, and ruddy plover.
Sanders (n.) An old name of sandalwood, now applied only to the red sandalwood. See under Sandalwood.
Sanders-blue (n.) See Saunders-blue.
Sandever (n.) See Sandiver.
Sandfish (n.) A small marine fish of the Pacific coast of North America (Trichodon trichodon) which buries itself in the sand.
Sandglass (n.) An instrument for measuring time by the running of sand. See Hourglass.
Sandhiller (n.) A nickname given to any "poor white" living in the pine woods which cover the sandy hills in Georgia and South Carolina.
Sandiness (n.) The quality or state of being sandy, or of being of a sandy color.
Sandish (a.) Approaching the nature of sand; loose; not compact.
Sandiver (n.) A whitish substance which is cast up, as a scum, from the materials of glass in fusion, and, floating on the top, is skimmed off; -- called also glass gall.
Sandix (n.) A kind of minium, or red lead, made by calcining carbonate of lead, but inferior to true minium.
Sandman (n.) A mythical person who makes children sleepy, so that they rub their eyes as if there were sand in them.
Sandnecker (n.) A European flounder (Hippoglossoides limandoides); -- called also rough dab, long fluke, sand fluke, and sand sucker.
Sandpaper (n.) Paper covered on one side with sand glued fast, -- used for smoothing and polishing.
Sandpaper (v. t.) To smooth or polish with sandpaper; as, to sandpaper a door.
Sandpiper (n.) Any one of numerous species of small limicoline game birds belonging to Tringa, Actodromas, Ereunetes, and various allied genera of the family Tringidae.
Sandpiper (n.) A small lamprey eel; the pride.
Sandpit (n.) A pit or excavation from which sand is or has been taken.
Sandre (n.) A Russian fish (Lucioperca sandre) which yields a valuable oil, called sandre oil, used in the preparation of caviare.
Sandstone (n.) A rock made of sand more or less firmly united. Common or siliceous sandstone consists mainly of quartz sand.
Sandwich (n.) Two pieces of bread and butter with a thin slice of meat, cheese, or the like, between them.
Sandwiched (imp. & p. p.) of Sandwich
Sandwiching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sandwich
Sandwich (v. t.) To make into a sandwich; also, figuratively, to insert between portions of something dissimilar; to form of alternate parts or things, or alternating layers of a different nature; to interlard.
Sandworm (n.) Any one of numerous species of annelids which burrow in the sand of the seashore.
Sandworm (n.) Any species of annelids of the genus Sabellaria. They construct firm tubes of agglutinated sand on rocks and shells, and are sometimes destructive to oysters.
Sandworm (n.) The chigoe, a species of flea.
Sandwort (n.) Any plant of the genus Arenaria, low, tufted herbs (order Caryophyllaceae.)
Sandy (superl.) Consisting of, abounding with, or resembling, sand; full of sand; covered or sprinkled with sand; as, a sandy desert, road, or soil.
Sandy (superl.) Of the color of sand; of a light yellowish red color; as, sandy hair.
Sandyx (n.) See Sandix.
Sane (a.) Being in a healthy condition; not deranged; acting rationally; -- said of the mind.
Sane (a.) Mentally sound; possessing a rational mind; having the mental faculties in such condition as to be able to anticipate and judge of the effect of one's actions in an ordinary maner; -- said of persons.
Saneness (n.) The state of being sane; sanity.
Sang () imp. of Sing.
Sanga (n.) Alt. of Sangu
Sangu (n.) The Abyssinian ox (Bos / Bibos, Africanus), noted for the great length of its horns. It has a hump on its back.
Sangaree (n.) Wine and water sweetened and spiced, -- a favorite West Indian drink.
Sang-froid (n.) Freedom from agitation or excitement of mind; coolness in trying circumstances; indifference; calmness.
Sangiac (n.) See Sanjak.
Sangraal (n.) Alt. of Sangreal
Sangreal (n.) See Holy Grail, under Grail.
Sanguiferous (a.) Conveying blood; as, sanguiferous vessels, i. e., the arteries, veins, capillaries.
Sanguification (n.) The production of blood; the conversion of the products of digestion into blood; hematosis.
Sanguifier (n.) A producer of blood.
Sanguifluous (a.) Flowing or running with blood.
Sanguify (v. t.) To produce blood from.
Sanguigenous (a.) Producing blood; as, sanguigenous food.
Sanguinaceous (n.) Of a blood-red color; sanguine.
Sanguinaria (n.) A genus of plants of the Poppy family.
Sanguinaria (n.) The rootstock of the bloodroot, used in medicine as an emetic, etc.
Sanguinarily (adv.) In a sanguinary manner.
Sanguinariness (n.) The quality or state of being sanguinary.
Sanguinary (a.) Attended with much bloodshed; bloody; murderous; as, a sanguinary war, contest, or battle.
Sanguinary (a.) Bloodthirsty; cruel; eager to shed blood.
Sanguinary (a.) The yarrow.
Sanguinary (a.) The Sanguinaria.
Sanguine (a.) Having the color of blood; red.
Sanguine (a.) Characterized by abundance and active circulation of blood; as, a sanguine bodily temperament.
Sanguine (a.) Warm; ardent; as, a sanguine temper.
Sanguine (a.) Anticipating the best; not desponding; confident; full of hope; as, sanguine of success.
Sanguine (n.) Blood color; red.
Sanguine (n.) Anything of a blood-red color, as cloth.
Sanguine (n.) Bloodstone.
Sanguine (n.) Red crayon. See the Note under Crayon, 1.
Sanguine (v. t.) To stain with blood; to impart the color of blood to; to ensanguine.
Sanguineless (a.) Destitute of blood; pale.
Sanguinely (adv.) In a sanguine manner.
Sanguineness (n.) The quality of being sanguine.
Sanguineous (a.) Abounding with blood; sanguine.
Sanguineous (a.) Of or pertaining to blood; bloody; constituting blood.
Sanguineous (a.) Blood-red; crimson.
sanguinity (n.) The quality of being sanguine; sanguineness.
Sanguinivorous (a.) Subsisting on blood.
Sanguinolency (n.) The state of being sanguinolent, or bloody.
Sanguinolent (a.) Tinged or mingled with blood; bloody; as, sanguinolent sputa.
Sanguisuge (n.) A bloodsucker, or leech.
Sanguivorous (a.) Subsisting upon blood; -- said of certain blood-sucking bats and other animals. See Vampire.
Sanhedrin (n.) Alt. of Sanhedrim
Sanhedrim (n.) the great council of the Jews, which consisted of seventy members, to whom the high priest was added. It had jurisdiction of religious matters.
Sanhedrist (n.) A member of the sanhedrin.
Sanhita (n.) A collection of vedic hymns, songs, or verses, forming the first part of each Veda.
Sanicle (n.) Any plant of the umbelliferous genus Sanicula, reputed to have healing powers.
Sanidine (n.) A variety of orthoclase feldspar common in certain eruptive rocks, as trachyte; -- called also glassy feldspar.
Sanies (n.) A thin, serous fluid commonly discharged from ulcers or foul wounds.
Sanious (a.) Pertaining to sanies, or partaking of its nature and appearance; thin and serous, with a slight bloody tinge; as, the sanious matter of an ulcer.
Sanious (a.) Discharging sanies; as, a sanious ulcer.
Sanitarian (a.) Of or pertaining to health, or the laws of health; sanitary.
Sanitarian (n.) An advocate of sanitary measures; one especially interested or versed in sanitary measures.
Sanitarist (n.) A sanitarian.
Sanitarium (n.) A health station or retreat; a sanatorium.
Sanitary (a.) Of or pertaining to health; designed to secure or preserve health; relating to the preservation or restoration of health; hygienic; as, sanitary regulations. See the Note under Sanatory.
Sanitation (n.) The act of rendering sanitary; the science of sanitary conditions; the preservation of health; the use of sanitary measures; hygiene.
Sanity (n.) The condition or quality of being sane; soundness of health of body or mind, especially of the mind; saneness.
Sanjak (n.) A district or a subvision of a vilayet.
Sank () imp. of Sink.
Sankha (n.) A chank shell (Turbinella pyrum); also, a shell bracelet or necklace made in India from the chank shell.
Sankhya (n.) A Hindoo system of philosophy which refers all things to soul and a rootless germ called prakriti, consisting of three elements, goodness, passion, and darkness.
Sannop (n.) Same as Sannup.
Sannup (n.) A male Indian; a brave; -- correlative of squaw.
Sanny (n.) The sandpiper.
Sans (prep.) Without; deprived or destitute of. Rarely used as an English word.
Sanscrit (n.) See Sanskrit.
Sans-culotte (n.) A fellow without breeches; a ragged fellow; -- a name of reproach given in the first French revolution to the extreme republican party, who rejected breeches as an emblem peculiar to the upper classes or aristocracy, and adopted pantaloons.
Sans-culotte (n.) Hence, an extreme or radical republican; a violent revolutionist; a Jacobin.
Sans-culottic (a.) Pertaining to, or involving, sans-culottism; radical; revolutionary; Jacobinical.
Sans-culottism (n.) Extreme republican principles; the principles or practice of the sans-culottes.
Sanskrit (n.) The ancient language of the Hindoos, long since obsolete in vernacular use, but preserved to the present day as the literary and sacred dialect of India. It is nearly allied to the Persian, and to the principal languages of Europe, classical and modern, and by its more perfect preservation of the roots and forms of the primitive language from which they are all descended, is a most important assistance in determining their history and relations. Cf. Prakrit, and Veda.
Sanskrit (a.) Of or pertaining to Sanskrit; written in Sanskrit; as, a Sanskrit dictionary or inscription.
Sanskritic (a.) Sanskrit.
Sanskritist (n.) One versed in Sanskrit.
Sans-souci (adv.) Without care; free and easy.
Santal (n.) A colorless crystalline substance, isomeric with piperonal, but having weak acid properties. It is extracted from sandalwood.
Santalaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Santalaceae), of which the genus Santalum is the type, and which includes the buffalo nut and a few other North American plants, and many peculiar plants of the southern hemisphere.
Santalic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, sandalwood (Santalum); -- used specifically to designate an acid obtained as a resinous or red crystalline dyestuff, which is called also santalin.
Santalin (n.) Santalic acid. See Santalic.
Santalum (n.) A genus of trees with entire opposite leaves and small apetalous flowers. There are less than a dozen species, occurring from India to Australia and the Pacific Islands. See Sandalwood.
Santees (n. pl.) One of the seven confederated tribes of Indians belonging to the Sioux, or Dakotas.
Santer (v. i.) See Saunter.
Santon (n.) A Turkish saint; a kind of dervish, regarded by the people as a saint: also, a hermit.
Santonate (n.) A salt of santonic acid.
Santonic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid (distinct from santoninic acid) obtained from santonin as a white crystalline substance.
Santonin (n.) A white crystalline substance having a bitter taste, extracted from the buds of levant wormseed and used as an anthelmintic. It occassions a peculiar temporary color blindness, causing objects to appear as if seen through a yellow glass.
Santoninate (n.) A salt of santoninic acid.
Santoninic (a.) Of or pertaining to santonin; -- used specifically to designate an acid not known in the free state, but obtained in its salts.
Sao (n.) Any marine annelid of the genus Hyalinaecia, especially H. tubicola of Europe, which inhabits a transparent movable tube resembling a quill in color and texture.
Sap (n.) The juice of plants of any kind, especially the ascending and descending juices or circulating fluid essential to nutrition.
Sap (n.) The sapwood, or alburnum, of a tree.
Sap (n.) A simpleton; a saphead; a milksop.
Sapped (imp. & p. p.) of Sap
Sapping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sap
Sap (v. t.) To subvert by digging or wearing away; to mine; to undermine; to destroy the foundation of.
Sap (v. t.) To pierce with saps.
Sap (v. t.) To make unstable or infirm; to unsettle; to weaken.
Sap (v. i.) To proceed by mining, or by secretly undermining; to execute saps.
Sap (n.) A narrow ditch or trench made from the foremost parallel toward the glacis or covert way of a besieged place by digging under cover of gabions, etc.
Sapadillo (n.) See Sapodila.
Sapajo (n.) The sapajou.
Sapajou (n.) Any one of several species of South American monkeys of the genus Cebus, having long and prehensile tails. Some of the species are called also capuchins. The bonnet sapajou (C. subcristatus), the golden-handed sapajou (C. chrysopus), and the white-throated sapajou (C. hypoleucus) are well known species. See Capuchin.
Sapan wood () A dyewood yielded by Caesalpinia Sappan, a thorny leguminous tree of Southern Asia and the neighboring islands. It is the original Brazil wood.
Sapful (a.) Abounding in sap; sappy.
Saphead (n.) A weak-minded, stupid fellow; a milksop.
Saphenous (a.) Manifest; -- applied to the two principal superficial veins of the lower limb of man.
Saphenous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the saphenous veins; as, the saphenous nerves; the saphenous opening, an opening in the broad fascia of the thigh through which the internal saphenous vein passes.
Sapid (a.) Having the power of affecting the organs of taste; possessing savor, or flavor.
Sapidity (n.) The quality or state of being sapid; taste; savor; savoriness.
Sapidness (n.) Quality of being sapid; sapidity.
Sapience (n.) The quality of being sapient; wisdom; sageness; knowledge.
Sapient (a.) Wise; sage; discerning; -- often in irony or contempt.
Sapiential (a.) Having or affording wisdom.
Sapientious (a.) Sapiential.
Sapientize (v. t.) To make sapient.
Sapiently (adv.) In a sapient manner.
Sapindaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to an order of trees and shrubs (Sapindaceae), including the (typical) genus Sapindus, the maples, the margosa, and about seventy other genera.
Sapindus (n.) A genus of tropical and subtropical trees with pinnate leaves and panicled flowers. The fruits of some species are used instead of soap, and their round black seeds are made into necklaces.
Sapless (a.) Destitute of sap; not juicy.
Sapless (a.) Fig.: Dry; old; husky; withered; spiritless.
sapling (n.) A young tree.
Sapodilla (n.) A tall, evergeen, tropical American tree (Achras Sapota); also, its edible fruit, the sapodilla plum.
Sapogenin (n.) A white crystalline substance obtained by the decomposition of saponin.
Saponaceous (a.) Resembling soap; having the qualities of soap; soapy.
Saponacity (n.) The quality or state of being saponaceous.
Saponary (a.) Saponaceous.
Saponifiable (a.) Capable of conversion into soap; as, a saponifiable substance.
Saponification (n.) The act, process, or result, of soap making; conversion into soap; specifically (Chem.), the decomposition of fats and other ethereal salts by alkalies; as, the saponification of ethyl acetate.
Saponifier (n.) That which saponifies; any reagent used to cause saponification.
Saponified (imp. & p. p.) of Saponify
Saponifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Saponify
Saponify (v. t.) To convert into soap, as tallow or any fat; hence (Chem.), to subject to any similar process, as that which ethereal salts undergo in decomposition; as, to saponify ethyl acetate.
Saponin (n.) A poisonous glucoside found in many plants, as in the root of soapwort (Saponaria), in the bark of soap bark (Quillaia), etc. It is extracted as a white amorphous powder, which occasions a soapy lather in solution, and produces a local anaesthesia. Formerly called also struthiin, quillaiin, senegin, polygalic acid, etc. By extension, any one of a group of related bodies of which saponin proper is the type.
Saponite (n.) A hydrous silicate of magnesia and alumina. It occurs in soft, soapy, amorphous masses, filling veins in serpentine and cavities in trap rock.
Saponul (n.) A soapy mixture obtained by treating an essential oil with an alkali; hence, any similar compound of an essential oil.
Sapor (n.) Power of affecting the organs of taste; savor; flavor; taste.
Saporific (a.) Having the power to produce the sensation of taste; producing taste, flavor, or relish.
Saporosity (n.) The quality of a body by which it excites the sensation of taste.
Saporous (a.) Having flavor or taste; yielding a taste.
Sapota (n.) The sapodilla.
Sapotaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order (Sapotaceae) of (mostly tropical) trees and shrubs, including the star apple, the Lucuma, or natural marmalade tree, the gutta-percha tree (Isonandra), and the India mahwa, as well as the sapodilla, or sapota, after which the order is named.
Sappan wood () Sapan wood.
Sappare (n.) Kyanite.
Sapper (n.) One who saps; specifically (Mil.), one who is employed in working at saps, building and repairing fortifications, and the like.
Sapphic (a.) Of or pertaining to Sappho, the Grecian poetess; as, Sapphic odes; Sapphic verse.
Sapphic (a.) Belonging to, or in the manner of, Sappho; -- said of a certain kind of verse reputed to have been invented by Sappho, consisting of five feet, of which the first, fourth, and fifth are trochees, the second is a spondee, and the third a dactyl.
Sapphic (n.) A Sapphic verse.
Sapphire (n.) Native alumina or aluminium sesquioxide, Al2O3; corundum; esp., the blue transparent variety of corundum, highly prized as a gem.
Sapphire (n.) The color of the gem; bright blue.
Sapphire (n.) Any humming bird of the genus Hylocharis, native of South America. The throat and breast are usually bright blue.
Sapphire (a.) Of or resembling sapphire; sapphirine; blue.
Sapphirine (n.) Resembling sapphire; made of sapphire; having the color, or any quality of sapphire.
Sappho (n.) Any one of several species of brilliant South American humming birds of the genus Sappho, having very bright-colored and deeply forked tails; -- called also firetail.
Sappiness (n.) The quality of being sappy; juiciness.
Sappodilla (n.) See Sapodilla.
Sappy (superl.) Abounding with sap; full of sap; juicy; succulent.
Sappy (superl.) Hence, young, not firm; weak, feeble.
Sappy (superl.) Weak in intellect.
Sappy (superl.) Abounding in sap; resembling, or consisting largely of, sapwood.
Sappy (a.) Musty; tainted.
Saprophagan (n.) One of a tribe of beetles which feed upon decaying animal and vegetable substances; a carrion beetle.
Saprophagous (a.) Feeding on carrion.
Saprophyte (n.) Any plant growing on decayed animal or vegetable matter, as most fungi and some flowering plants with no green color, as the Indian pipe.
Saprophytic (a.) Feeding or growing upon decaying animal or vegetable matter; pertaining to a saprophyte or the saprophytes.
Sapsago (n.) A kind of Swiss cheese, of a greenish color, flavored with melilot.
Sapskull (n.) A saphead.
Sapucaia (n.) A Brazilian tree. See Lecythis, and Monkey-pot.
Sapwood (n.) The alburnum, or part of the wood of any exogenous tree next to the bark, being that portion of the tree through which the sap flows most freely; -- distinguished from heartwood.
Sarabaite (n.) One of certain vagrant or heretical Oriental monks in the early church.
Saraband (n.) A slow Spanish dance of Saracenic origin, to an air in triple time; also, the air itself.
Saracen (n.) Anciently, an Arab; later, a Mussulman; in the Middle Ages, the common term among Christians in Europe for a Mohammedan hostile to the crusaders.
Saracenic (a.) Alt. of Saracenical
Saracenical (a.) Of or pertaining to the Saracens; as, Saracenic architecture.
Sarasin (n.) See Sarrasin.
Saraswati (n.) The sakti or wife of Brahma; the Hindoo goddess of learning, music, and poetry.
Sarcasm (n.) A keen, reproachful expression; a satirical remark uttered with some degree of scorn or contempt; a taunt; a gibe; a cutting jest.
Sarcasmous (a.) Sarcastic.
Sarcastic (a.) Alt. of Sarcastical
Sarcastical (a.) Expressing, or expressed by, sarcasm; characterized by, or of the nature of, sarcasm; given to the use of sarcasm; bitterly satirical; scornfully severe; taunting.
Sarcastically (adv.) In a sarcastic manner.
Sarcel (n.) One of the outer pinions or feathers of the wing of a bird, esp. of a hawk.
Sarceled (a.) Cut through the middle.
Sarcelle (n.) The old squaw, or long-tailed duck.
Sarcenet (n.) A species of fine thin silk fabric, used for linings, etc.
Sarcin (n.) Same as Hypoxanthin.
Sarcina (n.) A genus of bacteria found in various organic fluids, especially in those those of the stomach, associated with certain diseases. The individual organisms undergo division along two perpendicular partitions, so that multiplication takes place in two directions, giving groups of four cubical cells. Also used adjectively; as, a sarcina micrococcus; a sarcina group.
Sarcle (v. t.) To weed, or clear of weeds, with a hoe.
Sarco- () A combining form from Gr. sa`rx, sa`rkos, flesh; as, sarcophagous, flesh-eating; sarcology.
Sarcobases (pl. ) of Sarcobasis
Sarcobasis (n.) A fruit consisting of many dry indehiscent cells, which contain but few seeds and cohere about a common style, as in the mallows.
Sarcoblast (n.) A minute yellowish body present in the interior of certain rhizopods.
Sarcocarp (n.) The fleshy part of a stone fruit, situated between the skin, or epicarp, and the stone, or endocarp, as in a peach. See Illust. of Endocarp.
Sarcocele (n.) Any solid tumor of the testicle.
Sarcocol (n.) Alt. of Sarcocolla
Sarcocolla (n.) A gum resin obtained from certain shrubs of Africa (Penaea), -- formerly thought to cause healing of wounds and ulcers.
Sarcode (n.) A name applied by Dujardin in 1835 to the gelatinous material forming the bodies of the lowest animals; protoplasm.
Sarcoderm (n.) Alt. of sarcoderma
sarcoderma (n.) A fleshy covering of a seed, lying between the external and internal integuments.
sarcoderma (n.) A sarcocarp.
Sarcodic (a.) Of or pertaining to sarcode.
Sarcoid (a.) Resembling flesh, or muscle; composed of sarcode.
Sarcolactic (a.) Relating to muscle and milk; as, sarcolactic acid. See Lactic acid, under Lactic.
Sarcolemma (n.) The very thin transparent and apparently homogeneous sheath which incloses a striated muscular fiber; the myolemma.
Sarcoline (a.) Flesh-colored.
Sarcologic (a.) Alt. of Sarcological
Sarcological (a.) Of or pertaining to sarcology.
Sarcology (n.) That part of anatomy which treats of the soft parts. It includes myology, angiology, neurology, and splanchnology.
Sarcomata (pl. ) of Sarcoma
sarcomas (pl. ) of Sarcoma
Sarcoma (n.) A tumor of fleshy consistence; -- formerly applied to many varieties of tumor, now restricted to a variety of malignant growth made up of cells resembling those of fetal development without any proper intercellular substance.
Sarcomatous (a.) Of or pertaining to sarcoma; resembling sarcoma.
Sarcophaga (n. pl.) A suborder of carnivorous and insectivorous marsupials including the dasyures and the opossums.
Sarcophaga (n.) A genus of Diptera, including the flesh flies.
Sarcophagan (n.) Any animal which eats flesh, especially any carnivorous marsupial.
Sarcophagan (n.) Any fly of the genus Sarcophaga.
Sarcophagous (a.) Feeding on flesh; flesh-eating; carnivorous.
Sarcophagi (pl. ) of Sarcophagus
Sarcophaguses (pl. ) of Sarcophagus
Sarcophagus (n.) A species of limestone used among the Greeks for making coffins, which was so called because it consumed within a few weeks the flesh of bodies deposited in it. It is otherwise called lapis Assius, or Assian stone, and is said to have been found at Assos, a city of Lycia.
Sarcophagus (n.) A coffin or chest-shaped tomb of the kind of stone described above; hence, any stone coffin.
Sarcophagus (n.) A stone shaped like a sarcophagus and placed by a grave as a memorial.
Sarcophagy (n.) The practice of eating flesh.
Sarcophile (n.) A flesh-eating animal, especially any one of the carnivorous marsupials.
Sarcoptes (n.) A genus of parasitic mites including the itch mites.
Sarcoptid (n.) Any species of the genus Sarcoptes and related genera of mites, comprising the itch mites and mange mites.
Sarcoptid (a.) Of or pertaining to the itch mites.
Sarcorhamphi (n. pl.) A division of raptorial birds comprising the vultures.
Sarcosepta (pl. ) of Sarcoseptum
Sarcoseptum (n.) One of the mesenteries of an anthozoan.
Sarcosin (n.) A crystalline nitrogenous substance, formed in the decomposition of creatin (one of the constituents of muscle tissue). Chemically, it is methyl glycocoll.
Sarcosis (n.) Abnormal formation of flesh.
Sarcosis (n.) Sarcoma.
Sarcotic (a.) Producing or promoting the growth of flesh.
Sarcotic (n.) A sarcotic medicine.
Sarcous (a.) Fleshy; -- applied to the minute structural elements, called sarcous elements, or sarcous disks, of which striated muscular fiber is composed.
Sarculation (n.) A weeding, as with a hoe or a rake.
Sard (n.) A variety of carnelian, of a rich reddish yellow or brownish red color. See the Note under Chalcedony.
Sardachate (n.) A variety of agate containing sard.
Sardan (n.) Alt. of Sardel
Sardel (n.) A sardine.
Sardel (n.) A precious stone. See Sardius.
Sardine (n.) Any one of several small species of herring which are commonly preserved in olive oil for food, especially the pilchard, or European sardine (Clupea pilchardus). The California sardine (Clupea sagax) is similar. The American sardines of the Atlantic coast are mostly the young of the common herring and of the menhaden.
Sardine (n.) See Sardius.
Sardinian (a.) Of or pertaining to the island, kingdom, or people of Sardinia.
Sardinian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Sardinia.
Sardius (n.) A precious stone, probably a carnelian, one of which was set in Aaron's breastplate.
Sardoin (n.) Sard; carnelian.
Sardonian (a.) Sardonic.
Sardonic (a.) Forced; unnatural; insincere; hence, derisive, mocking, malignant, or bitterly sarcastic; -- applied only to a laugh, smile, or some facial semblance of gayety.
Sardonic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a kind of linen made at Colchis.
Sardonyx (n.) A variety of onyx consisting of sard and white chalcedony in alternate layers.
Saree (n.) The principal garment of a Hindoo woman. It consists of a long piece of cloth, which is wrapped round the middle of the body, a portion being arranged to hang down in front, and the remainder passed across the bosom over the left shoulder.
Sargasso (n.) The gulf weed. See under Gulf.
Sargassum (n.) A genus of algae including the gulf weed.
Sargo (n.) Any one of several species of sparoid fishes belonging to Sargus, Pomadasys, and related genera; -- called also sar, and saragu.
Sari (n.) Same as Saree.
Sarigue (n.) A small South American opossum (Didelphys opossum), having four white spots on the face.
Sark (n.) A shirt.
Sark (v. t.) To cover with sarking, or thin boards.
Sarkin (n.) Same as Hypoxanthin.
Sarking (n.) Thin boards for sheathing, as above the rafters, and under the shingles or slates, and for similar purposes.
Sarlac (n.) Alt. of Sarlyk
Sarlyk (n.) The yak.
Sarmatian (a.) Alt. of Sarmatic
Sarmatic (a.) Of or pertaining to Sarmatia, or its inhabitants, the ancestors of the Russians and the Poles.
Sarment (n.) A prostrate filiform stem or runner, as of the strawberry. See Runner.
Sarmentaceous (a.) Bearing sarments, or runners, as the strawberry.
Sarmentose (a.) Long and filiform, and almost naked, or having only leaves at the joints where it strikes root; as, a sarmentose stem.
Sarmentose (a.) Bearing sarments; sarmentaceous.
Sarmentous (a.) Sarmentose.
Sarn (n.) A pavement or stepping-stone.
Sarong (n.) A sort of petticoat worn by both sexes in Java and the Malay Archipelago.
Saros (n.) A Chaldean astronomical period or cycle, the length of which has been variously estimated from 3,600 years to 3,600 days, or a little short of 10 years.
Sarplar (n.) A large bale or package of wool, containing eighty tods, or 2,240 pounds, in weight.
Sarplier (n.) A coarse cloth made of hemp, and used for packing goods, etc.
Sarpo (n.) A large toadfish of the Southern United States and the Gulf of Mexico (Batrachus tau, var. pardus).
Sarracenia (n.) A genus of American perennial herbs growing in bogs; the American pitcher plant.
Sarrasin (n.) Alt. of Sarrasine
Sarrasine (n.) A portcullis, or herse.
Sarsa (n.) Sarsaparilla.
Sarsaparilla (n.) Any plant of several tropical American species of Smilax.
Sarsaparilla (n.) The bitter mucilaginous roots of such plants, used in medicine and in sirups for soda, etc.
Sarsaparillin (n.) See Parillin.
Sarse (n.) A fine sieve; a searce.
Sarse (v. t.) To sift through a sarse.
Sarsen (n.) One of the large sandstone blocks scattered over the English chalk downs; -- called also sarsen stone, and Druid stone.
Sarsenet (n.) See Sarcenet.
Sart (n.) An assart, or clearing.
Sartorial (a.) Of or pertaining to a tailor or his work.
Sartorial (a.) Of or pertaining to the sartorius muscle.
Sartorius (n.) A muscle of the thigh, called the tailor's muscle, which arises from the hip bone and is inserted just below the knee. So named because its contraction was supposed to produce the position of the legs assumed by the tailor in sitting.
Sarum use () A liturgy, or use, put forth about 1087 by St. Osmund, bishop of Sarum, based on Anglo-Saxon and Norman customs.
Sash (n.) A scarf or band worn about the waist, over the shoulder, or otherwise; a belt; a girdle, -- worn by women and children as an ornament; also worn as a badge of distinction by military officers, members of societies, etc.
Sash (v. t.) To adorn with a sash or scarf.
Sash (n.) The framing in which the panes of glass are set in a glazed window or door, including the narrow bars between the panes.
Sash (n.) In a sawmill, the rectangular frame in which the saw is strained and by which it is carried up and down with a reciprocating motion; -- also called gate.
Sashed (imp. & p. p.) of Sash
Sashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sash
Sash (v. t.) To furnish with a sash or sashes; as, to sash a door or a window.
Sashery (n.) A collection of sashes; ornamentation by means of sashes.
Sashoon (n.) A kind of pad worn on the leg under the boot.
Sasin (n.) The Indian antelope (Antilope bezoartica, / cervicapra), noted for its beauty and swiftness. It has long, spiral, divergent horns.
Sassaby (n.) Alt. of Sassabye
Sassabye (n.) A large African antelope (Alcelaphus lunata), similar to the hartbeest, but having its horns regularly curved.
Sassafras (n.) An American tree of the Laurel family (Sassafras officinale); also, the bark of the roots, which has an aromatic smell and taste.
Sassanage (n.) Stones left after sifting.
Sassarara (n.) A word used to emphasize a statement.
Sasse (n.) A sluice or lock, as in a river, to make it more navigable.
Sassenach (n.) A Saxon; an Englishman; a Lowlander.
Sassolin (n.) Alt. of Sassoline
Sassoline (n.) Native boric acid, found in saline incrustations on the borders of hot springs near Sasso, in the territory of Florence.
Sassorol (n.) Alt. of Sassorolla
Sassorolla (n.) The rock pigeon. See under Pigeon.
Sassy bark () The bark of a West African leguminous tree (Erythrophlaeum Guineense, used by the natives as an ordeal poison, and also medicinally; -- called also mancona bark.
Sastra (n.) Same as Shaster.
Sat () imp. of Sit.
Satan (n.) The grand adversary of man; the Devil, or Prince of darkness; the chief of the fallen angels; the archfiend.
Satanic (a.) Alt. of Satanical
Satanical (a.) Of or pertaining to Satan; having the qualities of Satan; resembling Satan; extremely malicious or wicked; devilish; infernal.
Satanism (n.) The evil and malicious disposition of Satan; a diabolical spirit.
Satanist (n.) A very wicked person.
Satanophany (n.) An incarnation of Satan; a being possessed by a demon.
Satchel (n.) A little sack or bag for carrying papers, books, or small articles of wearing apparel; a hand bag.
Sated (imp. & p. p.) of Sate
Sating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sate
Sate (v. t.) To satisfy the desire or appetite of; to satiate; to glut; to surfeit.
Sate () imp. of Sit.
Sateen (n.) A kind of dress goods made of cotton or woolen, with a glossy surface resembling satin.
Sateless (a.) Insatiable.
Satellite (n.) An attendant attached to a prince or other powerful person; hence, an obsequious dependent.
Satellite (n.) A secondary planet which revolves about another planet; as, the moon is a satellite of the earth. See Solar system, under Solar.
Satellite (a.) Situated near; accompanying; as, the satellite veins, those which accompany the arteries.
Satellitious (a.) Pertaining to, or consisting of, satellites.
Sathanas (n.) Satan.
Satiate (a.) Filled to satiety; glutted; sated; -- followed by with or of.
Satiated (imp. & p. p.) of Satiate
Satiating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Satiate
Satiate (v. t.) To satisfy the appetite or desire of; to feed to the full; to furnish enjoyment to, to the extent of desire; to sate; as, to satiate appetite or sense.
Satiate (v. t.) To full beyond natural desire; to gratify to repletion or loathing; to surfeit; to glut.
Satiate (v. t.) To saturate.
Satiation (n.) Satiety.
Satiety (n.) The state of being satiated or glutted; fullness of gratification, either of the appetite or of any sensual desire; fullness beyond desire; an excess of gratification which excites wearisomeness or loathing; repletion; satiation.
Satin (n.) A silk cloth, of a thick, close texture, and overshot woof, which has a glossy surface.
Satinet (n.) A thin kind of satin.
Satinet (n.) A kind of cloth made of cotton warp and woolen filling, used chiefly for trousers.
Satinwood (n.) The hard, lemon-colored, fragrant wood of an East Indian tree (Chloroxylon Swietenia). It takes a lustrous finish, and is used in cabinetwork. The name is also given to the wood of a species of prickly ash (Xanthoxylum Caribaeum) growing in Florida and the West Indies.
Satiny (a.) Like or composed of satin; glossy; as, to have a satiny appearance; a satiny texture.
Sation (n.) A sowing or planting.
Satire (a.) A composition, generally poetical, holding up vice or folly to reprobation; a keen or severe exposure of what in public or private morals deserves rebuke; an invective poem; as, the Satires of Juvenal.
Satire (a.) Keeness and severity of remark; caustic exposure to reprobation; trenchant wit; sarcasm.
Satiric (a.) Alt. of Satirical
Satirical (a.) Of or pertaining to satire; of the nature of satire; as, a satiric style.
Satirical (a.) Censorious; severe in language; sarcastic; insulting.
Satirist (n.) One who satirizes; especially, one who writes satire.
Satirized (imp. & p. p.) of Satirize
Satirizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Satirize
Satirize (v. t.) To make the object of satire; to attack with satire; to censure with keenness or severe sarcasm.
Satisfaction (n.) The act of satisfying, or the state of being satisfied; gratification of desire; contentment in possession and enjoyment; repose of mind resulting from compliance with its desires or demands.
Satisfaction (n.) Settlement of a claim, due, or demand; payment; indemnification; adequate compensation.
Satisfaction (n.) That which satisfies or gratifies; atonement.
Satisfactive (a.) Satisfactory.
Satisfactory (a.) Giving or producing satisfaction; yielding content; especially, relieving the mind from doubt or uncertainty, and enabling it to rest with confidence; sufficient; as, a satisfactory account or explanation.
Satisfactory (a.) Making amends, indemnification, or recompense; causing to cease from claims and to rest content; compensating; atoning; as, to make satisfactory compensation, or a satisfactory apology.
Satisfiable (a.) That may be satisfied.
Satisfier (n.) One who satisfies.
Satisfied (imp. & p. p.) of Satisfy
Satisfying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Satisfy
Satisfy (a.) In general, to fill up the measure of a want of (a person or a thing); hence, to grafity fully the desire of; to make content; to supply to the full, or so far as to give contentment with what is wished for.
Satisfy (a.) To pay to the extent of claims or deserts; to give what is due to; as, to satisfy a creditor.
Satisfy (a.) To answer or discharge, as a claim, debt, legal demand, or the like; to give compensation for; to pay off; to requite; as, to satisfy a claim or an execution.
Satisfy (a.) To free from doubt, suspense, or uncertainty; to give assurance to; to set at rest the mind of; to convince; as, to satisfy one's self by inquiry.
Satisfy (v. i.) To give satisfaction; to afford gratification; to leave nothing to be desired.
Satisfy (v. i.) To make payment or atonement; to atone.
Satisfyingly (adv.) So as to satisfy; satisfactorily.
Sative (a.) Sown; propagated by seed.
Satle (v. t. & i.) To settle.
Satrap (n.) The governor of a province in ancient Persia; hence, a petty autocrat despot.
Satrapal (a.) Of or pertaining to a satrap, or a satrapy.
Satrapess (n.) A female satrap.
Satrapical (a.) Satrapal.
Satrapies (pl. ) of Satrapy
Satrapy (n.) The government or jurisdiction of a satrap; a principality.
Satsuma ware () A kind of ornamental hard-glazed pottery made at Satsuma in Kiushu, one of the Japanese islands.
Saturable (a.) Capable of being saturated; admitting of saturation.
Saturant (a.) Impregnating to the full; saturating.
Saturant (n.) A substance used to neutralize or saturate the affinity of another substance.
Saturant (n.) An antacid, as magnesia, used to correct acidity of the stomach.
Saturated (imp. & p. p.) of Saturate
Saturating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Saturate
Saturate (v. t.) To cause to become completely penetrated, impregnated, or soaked; to fill fully; to sate.
Saturate (v. t.) To satisfy the affinity of; to cause to become inert by chemical combination with all that it can hold; as, to saturate phosphorus with chlorine.
Saturate (p. a.) Filled to repletion; saturated; soaked.
Saturated (a.) Filled to repletion; holding by absorption, or in solution, all that is possible; as, saturated garments; a saturated solution of salt.
Saturated (a.) Having its affinity satisfied; combined with all it can hold; -- said of certain atoms, radicals, or compounds; thus, methane is a saturated compound. Contrasted with unsaturated.
Saturation (n.) The act of saturating, or the state of being saturating; complete penetration or impregnation.
Saturation (n.) The act, process, or result of saturating a substance, or of combining it to its fullest extent.
Saturation (n.) Freedom from mixture or dilution with white; purity; -- said of colors.
Saturator (n.) One who, or that which, saturates.
Saturday (n.) The seventh or last day of the week; the day following Friday and preceding Sunday.
Saturity (n.) The state of being saturated; fullness of supply.
Saturn (n.) One of the elder and principal deities, the son of Coelus and Terra (Heaven and Earth), and the father of Jupiter. The corresponding Greek divinity was Kro`nos, later CHro`nos, Time.
Saturn (n.) One of the planets of the solar system, next in magnitude to Jupiter, but more remote from the sun. Its diameter is seventy thousand miles, its mean distance from the sun nearly eight hundred and eighty millions of miles, and its year, or periodical revolution round the sun, nearly twenty-nine years and a half. It is surrounded by a remarkable system of rings, and has eight satellites.
Saturn (n.) The metal lead.
Saturnalia (n. pl.) The festival of Saturn, celebrated in December, originally during one day, but afterward during seven days, as a period of unrestrained license and merriment for all classes, extending even to the slaves.
Saturnalia (n. pl.) Hence: A period or occasion of general license, in which the passions or vices have riotous indulgence.
Saturnalian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Saturnalia.
Saturnalian (a.) Of unrestrained and intemperate jollity; riotously merry; dissolute.
Saturnian (a.) Of or pertaining to Saturn, whose age or reign, from the mildness and wisdom of his government, is called the golden age.
Saturnian (a.) Hence: Resembling the golden age; distinguished for peacefulness, happiness, contentment.
Saturnian (a.) Of or pertaining to the planet Saturn; as, the Saturnian year.
Saturnian (n.) Any one of numerous species of large handsome moths belonging to Saturnia and allied genera. The luna moth, polyphemus, and promethea, are examples. They belong to the Silkworn family, and some are raised for their silk. See Polyphemus.
Saturnicentric (a.) Appearing as if seen from the center of the planet Saturn; relating or referred to Saturn as a center.
Saturnine (a.) Born under, or influenced by, the planet Saturn.
Saturnine (a.) Heavy; grave; gloomy; dull; -- the opposite of mercurial; as, a saturnine person or temper.
Saturnine (a.) Of or pertaining to lead; characterized by, or resembling, lead, which was formerly called Saturn.
Saturnism (n.) Plumbism.
Saturnist (n.) A person of a dull, grave, gloomy temperament.
Satyr (n.) A sylvan deity or demigod, represented as part man and part goat, and characterized by riotous merriment and lasciviousness.
Satyr (n.) Any one of many species of butterflies belonging to the family Nymphalidae. Their colors are commonly brown and gray, often with ocelli on the wings. Called also meadow browns.
Satyr (n.) The orang-outang.
Satyriasis (n.) Immoderate venereal appetite in the male.
Satyric (a.) Alt. of Satyrical
Satyrical (a.) Of or pertaining to satyrs; burlesque; as, satyric tragedy.
Satyrion (n.) Any one of several kinds of orchids.
Sauba ant () A South American ant (Oecodoma cephalotes) remarkable for having two large kinds of workers besides the ordinary ones, and for the immense size of its formicaries. The sauba ant cuts off leaves of plants and carries them into its subterranean nests, and thus often does great damage by defoliating trees and cultivated plants.
Sauce (n.) A composition of condiments and appetizing ingredients eaten with food as a relish; especially, a dressing for meat or fish or for puddings; as, mint sauce; sweet sauce, etc.
Sauce (n.) Any garden vegetables eaten with meat.
Sauce (n.) Stewed or preserved fruit eaten with other food as a relish; as, apple sauce, cranberry sauce, etc.
Sauce (n.) Sauciness; impertinence.
Sauced (imp. & p. p.) of Sauce
Saucing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sauce
Sauce (v. t.) To accompany with something intended to give a higher relish; to supply with appetizing condiments; to season; to flavor.
Sauce (v. t.) To cause to relish anything, as if with a sauce; to tickle or gratify, as the palate; to please; to stimulate; hence, to cover, mingle, or dress, as if with sauce; to make an application to.
Sauce (v. t.) To make poignant; to give zest, flavor or interest to; to set off; to vary and render attractive.
Sauce (v. t.) To treat with bitter, pert, or tart language; to be impudent or saucy to.
Sauce (n.) A soft crayon for use in stump drawing or in shading with the stump.
Sauce-alone (n.) Jack-by-the-hedge. See under Jack.
Saucebox (n.) A saucy, impudent person; especially, a pert child.
Saucepan (n.) A small pan with a handle, in which sauce is prepared over a fire; a stewpan.
Saucer (n.) A small pan or vessel in which sauce was set on a table.
Saucer (n.) A small dish, commonly deeper than a plate, in which a cup is set at table.
Saucer (n.) Something resembling a saucer in shape.
Saucer (n.) A flat, shallow caisson for raising sunken ships.
Saucer (n.) A shallow socket for the pivot of a capstan.
Saucily (adv.) In a saucy manner; impudently; with impertinent boldness.
Sauciness (n.) The quality or state of being saucy; that which is saucy; impertinent boldness; contempt of superiors; impudence.
Saucisson (n.) Alt. of Saucisse
Saucisse (n.) A long and slender pipe or bag, made of cloth well pitched, or of leather, filled with powder, and used to communicate fire to mines, caissons, bomb chests, etc.
Saucisse (n.) A fascine of more than ordinary length.
Saucy (superl.) Showing impertinent boldness or pertness; transgressing the rules of decorum; treating superiors with contempt; impudent; insolent; as, a saucy fellow.
Saucy (superl.) Expressive of, or characterized by, impudence; impertinent; as, a saucy eye; saucy looks.
Sauerkraut (n.) Cabbage cut fine and allowed to ferment in a brine made of its own juice with salt, -- a German dish.
Sauf (a.) Safe.
Sauf (conj. & prep.) Save; except.
Saufly (adv.) Safely.
Sauger (n.) An American fresh-water food fish (Stizostedion Canadense); -- called also gray pike, blue pike, hornfish, land pike, sand pike, pickering, and pickerel.
Saugh () Alt. of Sauh
Sauh () imp. sing. of See.
Sauks (n. pl.) Same as Sacs.
Saul (n.) Soul.
Saul (n.) Same as Sal, the tree.
Saulie (n.) A hired mourner at a funeral.
Sault (n.) A rapid in some rivers; as, the Sault Ste. Marie.
Saunders (n.) See Sandress.
Saunders-blue (n.) A kind of color prepared from calcined lapis lazuli; ultramarine; also, a blue prepared from carbonate of copper.
Sauntered (imp. & p. p.) of Saunter
Sauntering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Saunter
Saunter (n. & v.) To wander or walk about idly and in a leisurely or lazy manner; to lounge; to stroll; to loiter.
Saunter (n.) A sauntering, or a sauntering place.
Saunterer (n.) One who saunters.
Saur (n.) Soil; dirt; dirty water; urine from a cowhouse.
Saurel (n.) Any carangoid fish of the genus Trachurus, especially T. trachurus, or T. saurus, of Europe and America, and T. picturatus of California. Called also skipjack, and horse mackerel.
Sauria (n. pl.) A division of Reptilia formerly established to include the Lacertilia, Crocodilia, Dinosauria, and other groups. By some writers the name is restricted to the Lacertilia.
Saurian (a.) Of or pertaining to, or of the nature of, the Sauria.
Saurian (n.) One of the Sauria.
Saurioid (a.) Same as Sauroid.
Saurobatrachia (n. pl.) The Urodela.
Saurognathous (a.) Having the bones of the palate arranged as in saurians, the vomer consisting of two lateral halves, as in the woodpeckers (Pici).
Sauroid (a.) Like or pertaining to the saurians.
Sauroid (a.) Resembling a saurian superficially; as, a sauroid fish.
Sauroidichnite (n.) The fossil track of a saurian.
Sauropoda (n. pl.) An extinct order of herbivorous dinosaurs having the feet of a saurian type, instead of birdlike, as they are in many dinosaurs. It includes the largest known land animals, belonging to Brontosaurus, Camarasaurus, and allied genera. See Illustration in Appendix.
Sauropsida (n. pl.) A comprehensive group of vertebrates, comprising the reptiles and birds.
Sauropterygia (n. pl.) Same as Plesiosauria.
Saururae (n. pl.) An extinct order of birds having a long vertebrated tail with quills along each side of it. Archaeopteryx is the type. See Archaeopteryx, and Odontornithes.
Sauries (pl. ) of Saury
Saury (n.) A slender marine fish (Scomberesox saurus) of Europe and America. It has long, thin, beaklike jaws. Called also billfish, gowdnook, gawnook, skipper, skipjack, skopster, lizard fish, and Egypt herring.
Sausage (n.) An article of food consisting of meat (esp. pork) minced and highly seasoned, and inclosed in a cylindrical case or skin usually made of the prepared intestine of some animal.
Sausage (n.) A saucisson. See Saucisson.
Sauseflem (a.) Having a red, pimpled face.
Saussurite (n.) A tough, compact mineral, of a white, greenish, or grayish color. It is near zoisite in composition, and in part, at least, has been produced by the alteration of feldspar.
Saut (n.) Alt. of Saute
Saute (n.) An assault.
Saute () p. p. of Sauter.
Sauter (v. t.) To fry lightly and quickly, as meat, by turning or tossing it over frequently in a hot pan greased with a little fat.
Sauter (n.) Psalter.
Sauterelle (n.) An instrument used by masons and others to trace and form angles.
Sauterne (n.) A white wine made in the district of Sauterne, France.
Sautrie (n.) Psaltery.
Sauvegarde (n.) The monitor.
Savable (a.) Capable of, or admitting of, being saved.
Savableness (n.) Capability of being saved.
Savacioun (n.) Salvation.
Savage (a.) Of or pertaining to the forest; remote from human abodes and cultivation; in a state of nature; wild; as, a savage wilderness.
Savage (a.) Wild; untamed; uncultivated; as, savage beasts.
Savage (a.) Uncivilized; untaught; unpolished; rude; as, savage life; savage manners.
Savage (a.) Characterized by cruelty; barbarous; fierce; ferocious; inhuman; brutal; as, a savage spirit.
Savage (n.) A human being in his native state of rudeness; one who is untaught, uncivilized, or without cultivation of mind or manners.
Savage (n.) A man of extreme, unfeeling, brutal cruelty; a barbarian.
Savage (v. t.) To make savage.
Savagely (adv.) In a savage manner.
Savageness (n.) The state or quality of being savage.
Savagery (n.) The state of being savage; savageness; savagism.
Savagery (n.) An act of cruelty; barbarity.
Savagery (n.) Wild growth, as of plants.
Savagism (n.) The state of being savage; the state of rude, uncivilized men, or of men in their native wildness and rudeness.
Savanilla (n.) The tarpum.
Savanna (n.) A tract of level land covered with the vegetable growth usually found in a damp soil and warm climate, -- as grass or reeds, -- but destitute of trees.
Savants (pl. ) of Savant
Savant (a.) A man of learning; one versed in literature or science; a person eminent for acquirements.
Save (n.) The herb sage, or salvia.
Saved (imp. & p. p.) of Save
Saving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Save
Save (a.) To make safe; to procure the safety of; to preserve from injury, destruction, or evil of any kind; to rescue from impending danger; as, to save a house from the flames.
Save (a.) Specifically, to deliver from sin and its penalty; to rescue from a state of condemnation and spiritual death, and bring into a state of spiritual life.
Save (a.) To keep from being spent or lost; to secure from waste or expenditure; to lay up; to reserve.
Save (a.) To rescue from something undesirable or hurtful; to prevent from doing something; to spare.
Save (a.) To hinder from doing, suffering, or happening; to obviate the necessity of; to prevent; to spare.
Save (a.) To hold possession or use of; to escape loss of.
Save (v. i.) To avoid unnecessary expense or expenditure; to prevent waste; to be economical.
Save (a.) Except; excepting; not including; leaving out; deducting; reserving; saving.
Save (conj.) Except; unless.
Saveable (a.) See Savable.
Save-all (n.) Anything which saves fragments, or prevents waste or loss.
Save-all (n.) A device in a candlestick to hold the ends of candles, so that they be burned.
Save-all (n.) A small sail sometimes set under the foot of another sail, to catch the wind that would pass under it.
Saveloy (n.) A kind of dried sausage.
Savely (adv.) Safely.
Savement (n.) The act of saving.
Saver (n.) One who saves.
Savin (n.) Alt. of Savine
Savine (n.) A coniferous shrub (Juniperus Sabina) of Western Asia, occasionally found also in the northern parts of the United States and in British America. It is a compact bush, with dark-colored foliage, and produces small berries having a glaucous bloom. Its bitter, acrid tops are sometimes used in medicine for gout, amenorrhoea, etc.
Savine (n.) The North American red cedar (Juniperus Virginiana.)
Saving (a.) Preserving; rescuing.
Saving (a.) Avoiding unnecessary expense or waste; frugal; not lavish or wasteful; economical; as, a saving cook.
Saving (a.) Bringing back in returns or in receipts the sum expended; incurring no loss, though not gainful; as, a saving bargain; the ship has made a saving voyage.
Saving (a.) Making reservation or exception; as, a saving clause.
Saving (participle) With the exception of; except; excepting; also, without disrespect to.
Saving (n.) Something kept from being expended or lost; that which is saved or laid up; as, the savings of years of economy.
Saving (n.) Exception; reservation.
Savingly (adv.) In a saving manner; with frugality or parsimony.
Savingly (adv.) So as to be finally saved from eternal death.
Savingness (n.) The quality of being saving; carefulness not to expend money uselessly; frugality; parsimony.
Savingness (n.) Tendency to promote salvation.
Savior (v.) One who saves, preserves, or delivers from destruction or danger.
Savior (v.) Specifically: The (or our, your, etc.) Savior, he who brings salvation to men; Jesus Christ, the Redeemer.
Savioress (n.) A female savior.
Savor (a.) That property of a thing which affects the organs of taste or smell; taste and odor; flavor; relish; scent; as, the savor of an orange or a rose; an ill savor.
Savor (a.) Hence, specific flavor or quality; characteristic property; distinctive temper, tinge, taint, and the like.
Savor (a.) Sense of smell; power to scent, or trace by scent.
Savor (a.) Pleasure; delight; attractiveness.
Savored (imp. & p. p.) of Savor
Savoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Savor
Savor (n.) To have a particular smell or taste; -- with of.
Savor (n.) To partake of the quality or nature; to indicate the presence or influence; to smack; -- with of.
Savor (n.) To use the sense of taste.
Savor (v. t.) To perceive by the smell or the taste; hence, to perceive; to note.
Savor (v. t.) To have the flavor or quality of; to indicate the presence of.
Savor (v. t.) To taste or smell with pleasure; to delight in; to relish; to like; to favor.
Savorily (adv.) In a savory manner.
Savoriness (n.) The quality of being savory.
Savorless (a.) Having no savor; destitute of smell or of taste; insipid.
Savorly (a.) Savory.
Savorly (adv.) In a savory manner.
Savorous (n.) Having a savor; savory.
Savory (a.) Pleasing to the organs of taste or smell.
Savory (n.) An aromatic labiate plant (Satureia hortensis), much used in cooking; -- also called summer savory.
Savoy (n.) A variety of the common cabbage (Brassica oleracea major), having curled leaves, -- much cultivated for winter use.
Savoyard (n.) A native or inhabitant of Savoy.
Saw () imp. of See.
Saw (v. t.) Something said; speech; discourse.
Saw (v. t.) A saying; a proverb; a maxim.
Saw (v. t.) Dictate; command; decree.
Saw (n.) An instrument for cutting or dividing substances, as wood, iron, etc., consisting of a thin blade, or plate, of steel, with a series of sharp teeth on the edge, which remove successive portions of the material by cutting and tearing.
Sawed (imp.) of Saw
Sawed (p. p.) of Saw
Sawn () of Saw
Sawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Saw
Saw (v. t.) To cut with a saw; to separate with a saw; as, to saw timber or marble.
Saw (v. t.) To form by cutting with a saw; as, to saw boards or planks, that is, to saw logs or timber into boards or planks; to saw shingles; to saw out a panel.
Saw (v. t.) Also used figuratively; as, to saw the air.
Saw (v. i.) To use a saw; to practice sawing; as, a man saws well.
Saw (v. i.) To cut, as a saw; as, the saw or mill saws fast.
Saw (v. i.) To be cut with a saw; as, the timber saws smoothly.
Sawarra nut () See Souari nut.
Sawbelly (n.) The alewife.
Sawbill (n.) The merganser.
Sawbones (n.) A nickname for a surgeon.
Sawbuck (n.) A sawhorse.
Sawceflem (a.) See Sauseflem.
Sawder (n.) A corrupt spelling and pronunciation of solder.
Sawdust (n.) Dust or small fragments of wood (or of stone, etc.) made by the cutting of a saw.
Sawer (n.) One who saws; a sawyer.
Sawfish (n.) Any one of several species of elasmobranch fishes of the genus Pristis. They have a sharklike form, but are more nearly allied to the rays. The flattened and much elongated snout has a row of stout toothlike structures inserted along each edge, forming a sawlike organ with which it mutilates or kills its prey.
Sawfly (n.) Any one of numerous species of hymenopterous insects belonging to the family Tenthredinidae. The female usually has an ovipositor containing a pair of sawlike organs with which she makes incisions in the leaves or stems of plants in which to lay the eggs. The larvae resemble those of Lepidoptera.
Sawhorse (n.) A kind of rack, shaped like a double St. Andrew's cross, on which sticks of wood are laid for sawing by hand; -- called also buck, and sawbuck.
Sawmill (n.) A mill for sawing, especially one for sawing timber or lumber.
Sawneb (n.) A merganser.
Saw palmetto () See under Palmetto.
Saw-set (n.) An instrument used to set or turn the teeth of a saw a little sidewise, that they may make a kerf somewhat wider than the thickness of the blade, to prevent friction; -- called also saw-wrest.
Sawtooth (n.) An arctic seal (Lobodon carcinophaga), having the molars serrated; -- called also crab-eating seal.
Saw-toothed (a.) Having a tooth or teeth like those of a saw; serrate.
Sawtry (n.) A psaltery.
Saw-whet (n.) A small North American owl (Nyctale Acadica), destitute of ear tufts and having feathered toes; -- called also Acadian owl.
Saw-wort (n.) Any plant of the composite genus Serratula; -- so named from the serrated leaves of most of the species.
Saw-wrest (n.) See Saw-set.
Sawyer (n.) One whose occupation is to saw timber into planks or boards, or to saw wood for fuel; a sawer.
Sawyer (n.) A tree which has fallen into a stream so that its branches project above the surface, rising and falling with a rocking or swaying motion in the current.
Sawyer (n.) The bowfin.
Sax (n.) A kind of chopping instrument for trimming the edges of roofing slates.
Saxatile (a.) Of or pertaining to rocks; living among rocks; as, a saxatile plant.
Saxhorn (n.) A name given to a numerous family of brass wind instruments with valves, invented by Antoine Joseph Adolphe Sax (known as Adolphe Sax), of Belgium and Paris, and much used in military bands and in orchestras.
saxicavas (pl. ) of Saxicava
Saxicavae (pl. ) of Saxicava
Saxicava (n.) Any species of marine bivalve shells of the genus Saxicava. Some of the species are noted for their power of boring holes in limestone and similar rocks.
Saxicavid (a.) Of or pertaining to the saxicavas.
Saxicavid (n.) A saxicava.
Saxicavous (a.) Boring, or hollowing out, rocks; -- said of certain mollusks which live in holes which they burrow in rocks. See Illust. of Lithodomus.
Saxicoline (a.) Stone-inhabiting; pertaining to, or having the characteristics of, the stonechats.
Saxicolous (a.) Growing on rocks.
Saxifraga (n.) A genus of exogenous polypetalous plants, embracing about one hundred and eighty species. See Saxifrage.
Saxifragaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Saxifragaceae) of which saxifrage is the type. The order includes also the alum root, the hydrangeas, the mock orange, currants and gooseberries, and many other plants.
Saxifragant (a.) Breaking or destroying stones; saxifragous.
Saxifragant (n.) That which breaks or destroys stones.
Saxifrage (n.) Any plant of the genus Saxifraga, mostly perennial herbs growing in crevices of rocks in mountainous regions.
Saxifragous (a.) Dissolving stone, especially dissolving stone in the bladder.
Saxon (n.) One of a nation or people who formerly dwelt in the northern part of Germany, and who, with other Teutonic tribes, invaded and conquered England in the fifth and sixth centuries.
Saxon (n.) Also used in the sense of Anglo-Saxon.
Saxon (n.) A native or inhabitant of modern Saxony.
Saxon (n.) The language of the Saxons; Anglo-Saxon.
Saxon (a.) Of or pertaining to the Saxons, their country, or their language.
Saxon (a.) Anglo-Saxon.
Saxon (a.) Of or pertaining to Saxony or its inhabitants.
Saxonic (a.) Relating to the Saxons or Anglo- Saxons.
Saxonism (n.) An idiom of the Saxon or Anglo-Saxon language.
Saxonist (n.) One versed in the Saxon language.
Saxonite (n.) See Mountain soap, under Mountain.
Saxophone (n.) A wind instrument of brass, containing a reed, and partaking of the qualities both of a brass instrument and of a clarinet.
Sax-tuba (n.) A powerful instrument of brass, curved somewhat like the Roman buccina, or tuba.
Say (imp.) Saw.
Say (n.) Trial by sample; assay; sample; specimen; smack.
Say (n.) Tried quality; temper; proof.
Say (n.) Essay; trial; attempt.
Say (v. t.) To try; to assay.
Say (n.) A kind of silk or satin.
Say (n.) A delicate kind of serge, or woolen cloth.
Said (imp. & p. p.) of Say
Saying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Say
Say (v. t.) To utter or express in words; to tell; to speak; to declare; as, he said many wise things.
Say (v. t.) To repeat; to rehearse; to recite; to pronounce; as, to say a lesson.
Say (v. t.) To announce as a decision or opinion; to state positively; to assert; hence, to form an opinion upon; to be sure about; to be determined in mind as to.
Say (v. t.) To mention or suggest as an estimate, hypothesis, or approximation; hence, to suppose; -- in the imperative, followed sometimes by the subjunctive; as, he had, say fifty thousand dollars; the fox had run, say ten miles.
Say (v. i.) To speak; to express an opinion; to make answer; to reply.
Say (v. t.) A speech; something said; an expression of opinion; a current story; a maxim or proverb.
Sayer (n.) One who says; an utterer.
Sayette (n.) A mixed stuff, called also sagathy. See Sagathy.
Saying (n.) That which is said; a declaration; a statement, especially a proverbial one; an aphorism; a proverb.
Sayman (n.) One who assays.
Saymaster (n.) A master of assay; one who tries or proves.
Saynd () p. p. of Senge, to singe.
'Sblood (interj.) An abbreviation of God's blood; -- used as an oath.
Scab (n.) An incrustation over a sore, wound, vesicle, or pustule, formed by the drying up of the discharge from the diseased part.
Scab (n.) The itch in man; also, the scurvy.
Scab (n.) The mange, esp. when it appears on sheep.
Scab (n.) A disease of potatoes producing pits in their surface, caused by a minute fungus (Tiburcinia Scabies).
Scab (n.) A slight irregular protuberance which defaces the surface of a casting, caused by the breaking away of a part of the mold.
Scab (n.) A mean, dirty, paltry fellow.
Scab (n.) A nickname for a workman who engages for lower wages than are fixed by the trades unions; also, for one who takes the place of a workman on a strike.
Scabbed (imp. & p. p.) of Scab
Scabbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scab
Scab (v. i.) To become covered with a scab; as, the wound scabbed over.
Scabbard (n.) The case in which the blade of a sword, dagger, etc., is kept; a sheath.
Scabbard (v. t.) To put in a scabbard.
Scabbard plane () See Scaleboard plane, under Scaleboard.
Scabbed (a.) Abounding with scabs; diseased with scabs.
Scabbed (a.) Fig.: Mean; paltry; vile; worthless.
Scabbedness (n.) Scabbiness.
Scabbily (adv.) In a scabby manner.
Scabbiness (n.) The quality or state of being scabby.
Scabble (v. t.) See Scapple.
Scabby (superl.) Affected with scabs; full of scabs.
Scabby (superl.) Diseased with the scab, or mange; mangy.
Scabies (n.) The itch.
Scabious (a.) Consisting of scabs; rough; itchy; leprous; as, scabious eruptions.
Scabious (a.) Any plant of the genus Scabiosa, several of the species of which are common in Europe. They resemble the Compositae, and have similar heads of flowers, but the anthers are not connected.
Scabling (n.) A fragment or chip of stone.
Scabredity (n.) Roughness; ruggedness.
Scabrous (a.) Rough to the touch, like a file; having small raised dots, scales, or points; scabby; scurfy; scaly.
Scabrous (a.) Fig.: Harsh; unmusical.
Scabrousness (n.) The quality of being scabrous.
Scabwort (n.) Elecampane.
Scad (n.) A small carangoid fish (Trachurus saurus) abundant on the European coast, and less common on the American. The name is applied also to several allied species.
Scad (n.) The goggler; -- called also big-eyed scad. See Goggler.
Scad (n.) The friar skate.
Scad (n.) The cigar fish, or round robin.
Scaffold (n.) A temporary structure of timber, boards, etc., for various purposes, as for supporting workmen and materials in building, for exhibiting a spectacle upon, for holding the spectators at a show, etc.
Scaffold (n.) Specifically, a stage or elevated platform for the execution of a criminal; as, to die on the scaffold.
Scaffold (n.) An accumulation of adherent, partly fused material forming a shelf, or dome-shaped obstruction, above the tuyeres in a blast furnace.
Scaffold (v. t.) To furnish or uphold with a scaffold.
Scaffoldage (n.) A scaffold.
Scaffolding (n.) A scaffold; a supporting framework; as, the scaffolding of the body.
Scaffolding (n.) Materials for building scaffolds.
Scaglia (n.) A reddish variety of limestone.
Scagliola (n.) An imitation of any veined and ornamental stone, as marble, formed by a substratum of finely ground gypsum mixed with glue, the surface of which, while soft, is variegated with splinters of marble, spar, granite, etc., and subsequently colored and polished.
Scalae (pl. ) of Scala
Scala (n.) A machine formerly employed for reducing dislocations of the humerus.
Scala (n.) A term applied to any one of the three canals of the cochlea.
Scalable (a.) Capable of being scaled.
Scalade (n.) Alt. of Scalado
Scalado (n.) See Escalade.
Scalar (n.) In the quaternion analysis, a quantity that has magnitude, but not direction; -- distinguished from a vector, which has both magnitude and direction.
Scalaria (n.) Any one of numerous species of marine gastropods of the genus Scalaria, or family Scalaridae, having elongated spiral turreted shells, with rounded whorls, usually crossed by ribs or varices. The color is generally white or pale. Called also ladder shell, and wentletrap. See Ptenoglossa, and Wentletrap.
Scalariform (a.) Resembling a ladder in form or appearance; having transverse bars or markings like the rounds of a ladder; as, the scalariform cells and scalariform pits in some plants.
Scalariform (a.) Like or pertaining to a scalaria.
Scalary (a.) Resembling a ladder; formed with steps.
Scalawag (n.) A scamp; a scapegrace.
Scalded (imp. & p. p.) of Scald
Scalding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scald
Scald (v. t.) To burn with hot liquid or steam; to pain or injure by contact with, or immersion in, any hot fluid; as, to scald the hand.
Scald (v. t.) To expose to a boiling or violent heat over a fire, or in hot water or other liquor; as, to scald milk or meat.
Scald (n.) A burn, or injury to the skin or flesh, by some hot liquid, or by steam.
Scald (a.) Affected with the scab; scabby.
Scald (a.) Scurvy; paltry; as, scald rhymers.
Scald (n.) Scurf on the head. See Scall.
Scald (n.) One of the ancient Scandinavian poets and historiographers; a reciter and singer of heroic poems, eulogies, etc., among the Norsemen; more rarely, a bard of any of the ancient Teutonic tribes.
Scalder (n.) A Scandinavian poet; a scald.
Scaldfish (n.) A European flounder (Arnoglossus laterna, or Psetta arnoglossa); -- called also megrim, and smooth sole.
Scaldic (a.) Of or pertaining to the scalds of the Norsemen; as, scaldic poetry.
Scale (n.) The dish of a balance; hence, the balance itself; an instrument or machine for weighing; as, to turn the scale; -- chiefly used in the plural when applied to the whole instrument or apparatus for weighing. Also used figuratively.
Scale (n.) The sign or constellation Libra.
Scaled (imp. & p. p.) of Scale
Scaling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scale
Scale (v. t.) To weigh or measure according to a scale; to measure; also, to grade or vary according to a scale or system.
Scale (n.) One of the small, thin, membranous, bony or horny pieces which form the covering of many fishes and reptiles, and some mammals, belonging to the dermal part of the skeleton, or dermoskeleton. See Cycloid, Ctenoid, and Ganoid.
Scale (n.) Hence, any layer or leaf of metal or other material, resembling in size and thinness the scale of a fish; as, a scale of iron, of bone, etc.
Scale (n.) One of the small scalelike structures covering parts of some invertebrates, as those on the wings of Lepidoptera and on the body of Thysanura; the elytra of certain annelids. See Lepidoptera.
Scale (n.) A scale insect. (See below.)
Scale (n.) A small appendage like a rudimentary leaf, resembling the scales of a fish in form, and often in arrangement; as, the scale of a bud, of a pine cone, and the like. The name is also given to the chaff on the stems of ferns.
Scale (n.) The thin metallic side plate of the handle of a pocketknife. See Illust. of Pocketknife.
Scale (n.) An incrustation deposit on the inside of a vessel in which water is heated, as a steam boiler.
Scale (n.) The thin oxide which forms on the surface of iron forgings. It consists essentially of the magnetic oxide, Fe3O4. Also, a similar coating upon other metals.
Scale (v. t.) To strip or clear of scale or scales; as, to scale a fish; to scale the inside of a boiler.
Scale (v. t.) To take off in thin layers or scales, as tartar from the teeth; to pare off, as a surface.
Scale (v. t.) To scatter; to spread.
Scale (v. t.) To clean, as the inside of a cannon, by the explosion of a small quantity of powder.
Scale (v. i.) To separate and come off in thin layers or laminae; as, some sandstone scales by exposure.
Scale (v. i.) To separate; to scatter.
Scale (n.) A ladder; a series of steps; a means of ascending.
Scale (n.) Hence, anything graduated, especially when employed as a measure or rule, or marked by lines at regular intervals.
Scale (n.) A mathematical instrument, consisting of a slip of wood, ivory, or metal, with one or more sets of spaces graduated and numbered on its surface, for measuring or laying off distances, etc., as in drawing, plotting, and the like. See Gunter's scale.
Scale (n.) A series of spaces marked by lines, and representing proportionately larger distances; as, a scale of miles, yards, feet, etc., for a map or plan.
Scale (n.) A basis for a numeral system; as, the decimal scale; the binary scale, etc.
Scale (n.) The graduated series of all the tones, ascending or descending, from the keynote to its octave; -- called also the gamut. It may be repeated through any number of octaves. See Chromatic scale, Diatonic scale, Major scale, and Minor scale, under Chromatic, Diatonic, Major, and Minor.
Scale (n.) Gradation; succession of ascending and descending steps and degrees; progressive series; scheme of comparative rank or order; as, a scale of being.
Scale (n.) Relative dimensions, without difference in proportion of parts; size or degree of the parts or components in any complex thing, compared with other like things; especially, the relative proportion of the linear dimensions of the parts of a drawing, map, model, etc., to the dimensions of the corresponding parts of the object that is represented; as, a map on a scale of an inch to a mile.
Scale (v. t.) To climb by a ladder, or as if by a ladder; to ascend by steps or by climbing; to clamber up; as, to scale the wall of a fort.
Scale (v. i.) To lead up by steps; to ascend.
Scaleback (n.) Any one of numerous species of marine annelids of the family Polynoidae, and allies, which have two rows of scales, or elytra, along the back. See Illust. under Chaetopoda.
Scalebeam (n.) The lever or beam of a balance; the lever of a platform scale, to which the poise for weighing is applied.
Scalebeam (n.) A weighing apparatus with a sliding weight, resembling a steelyard.
Scaleboard (n.) A thin slip of wood used to justify a page.
Scaleboard (n.) A thin veneer of leaf of wood used for covering the surface of articles of furniture, and the like.
Scaled (a.) Covered with scales, or scalelike structures; -- said of a fish, a reptile, a moth, etc.
Scaled (a.) Without scales, or with the scales removed; as, scaled herring.
Scaled (a.) Having feathers which in form, color, or arrangement somewhat resemble scales; as, the scaled dove.
Scaleless (a.) Destitute of scales.
Scalene (a.) Having the sides and angles unequal; -- said of a triangle.
Scalene (a.) Having the axis inclined to the base, as a cone.
Scalene (a.) Designating several triangular muscles called scalene muscles.
Scalene (a.) Of or pertaining to the scalene muscles.
Scalene (n.) A triangle having its sides and angles unequal.
Scalenohedral (a.) Of or pertaining to a scalenohedron.
Scalenohedron (n.) A pyramidal form under the rhombohedral system, inclosed by twelve faces, each a scalene triangle.
Scaler (n.) One who, or that which, scales; specifically, a dentist's instrument for removing tartar from the teeth.
Scale-winged (a.) Having the wings covered with small scalelike structures, as the Lepidoptera; scaly-winged.
Scaliness (n.) The state of being scaly; roughness.
Scaling (a.) Adapted for removing scales, as from a fish; as, a scaling knife; adapted for removing scale, as from the interior of a steam boiler; as, a scaling hammer, bar, etc.
Scaling (a.) Serving as an aid in clambering; as, a scaling ladder, used in assaulting a fortified place.
Scaliola (n.) Same as Scagliola.
Scall (a.) A scurf or scabby disease, especially of the scalp.
Scall (a.) Scabby; scurfy.
Scalled (a.) Scabby; scurfy; scall.
Scallion (n.) A kind of small onion (Allium Ascalonicum), native of Palestine; the eschalot, or shallot.
Scallion (n.) Any onion which does not "bottom out," but remains with a thick stem like a leek.
Scallop (n.) Any one of numerous species of marine bivalve mollusks of the genus Pecten and allied genera of the family Pectinidae. The shell is usually radially ribbed, and the edge is therefore often undulated in a characteristic manner. The large adductor muscle of some the species is much used as food. One species (Vola Jacobaeus) occurs on the coast of Palestine, and its shell was formerly worn by pilgrims as a mark that they had been to the Holy Land. Called also fan shell. See Pecten, 2.
Scallop (n.) One of series of segments of circles joined at their extremities, forming a border like the edge or surface of a scallop shell.
Scallop (n.) One of the shells of a scallop; also, a dish resembling a scallop shell.
Scalloped (imp. & p. p.) of Scallop
Scalloping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scallop
Scallop (v. t.) To mark or cut the edge or border of into segments of circles, like the edge or surface of a scallop shell. See Scallop, n., 2.
Scallop (n.) To bake in scallop shells or dishes; to prepare with crumbs of bread or cracker, and bake. See Scalloped oysters, below.
Scalloped (a.) Furnished with a scallop; made or done with or in a scallop.
Scalloped (a.) Having the edge or border cut or marked with segments of circles. See Scallop, n., 2.
Scalloped (n.) Baked in a scallop; cooked with crumbs.
Scalloper (n.) One who fishes for scallops.
Scalloping (n.) Fishing for scallops.
Scalp (n.) A bed of oysters or mussels.
Scalp (n.) That part of the integument of the head which is usually covered with hair.
Scalp (n.) A part of the skin of the head, with the hair attached, cut or torn off from an enemy by the Indian warriors of North America, as a token of victory.
Scalp (n.) Fig.: The top; the summit.
Scalped (imp. & p. p.) of Scalp
Scalping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scalp
Scalp (v. t.) To deprive of the scalp; to cut or tear the scalp from the head of.
Scalp (v. t.) To remove the skin of.
Scalp (v. t.) To brush the hairs or fuzz from, as wheat grains, in the process of high milling.
Scalp (v. i.) To make a small, quick profit by slight fluctuations of the market; -- said of brokers who operate in this way on their own account.
Scalpel (n.) A small knife with a thin, keen blade, -- used by surgeons, and in dissecting.
Scalper (n.) One who, or that which, scalps.
Scalper (n.) Same as Scalping iron, under Scalping.
Scalper (n.) A broker who, dealing on his own account, tries to get a small and quick profit from slight fluctuations of the market.
Scalper (n.) A person who buys and sells the unused parts of railroad tickets.
Scalper (n.) A person who buys tickets for entertainment or sports events and sells them at a profit, often at a much higher price. Also, ticket scalper.
Scalping () a. & n. from Scalp.
Scalpriform (a.) Shaped like a chisel; as, the scalpriform incisors of rodents.
Scaly (a.) Covered or abounding with scales; as, a scaly fish.
Scaly (a.) Resembling scales, laminae, or layers.
Scaly (a.) Mean; low; as, a scaly fellow.
Scaly (a.) Composed of scales lying over each other; as, a scaly bulb; covered with scales; as, a scaly stem.
Scaly-winged (a.) Scale-winged.
Scambled (imp. & p. p.) of Scamble
Scambling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scamble
Scamble (v. i.) To move awkwardly; to be shuffling, irregular, or unsteady; to sprawl; to shamble.
Scamble (v. i.) To move about pushing and jostling; to be rude and turbulent; to scramble.
Scamble (v. t.) To mangle.
Scambler (n.) 1. One who scambles.
Scambler (n.) A bold intruder upon the hospitality of others; a mealtime visitor.
Scamblingly (adv.) In a scambling manner; with turbulence and noise; with bold intrusiveness.
Scamell (n.) Alt. of Scammel
Scammel (n.) The female bar-tailed godwit.
Scamilli (pl. ) of Scamillus
Scamillus (n.) A sort of second plinth or block, below the bases of Ionic and Corinthian columns, generally without moldings, and of smaller size horizontally than the pedestal.
Scammoniate (a.) Made from scammony; as, a scammoniate aperient.
Scammony (n.) A species of bindweed or Convolvulus (C. Scammonia).
Scammony (n.) An inspissated sap obtained from the root of the Convolvulus Scammonia, of a blackish gray color, a nauseous smell like that of old cheese, and a somewhat acrid taste. It is used in medicine as a cathartic.
Scamp (n.) A rascal; a swindler; a rogue.
Scamp (a.) To perform in a hasty, neglectful, or imperfect manner; to do superficially.
Scampavia (n.) A long, low war galley used by the Neapolitans and Sicilians in the early part of the nineteenth century.
Scampered (imp. & p. p.) of Scamper
Scampering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scamper
Scamper (v. t.) To run with speed; to run or move in a quick, hurried manner; to hasten away.
Scamper (n.) A scampering; a hasty flight.
Scamperer (n.) One who scampers.
Scampish (a.) Of or like a scamp; knavish; as, scampish conduct.
Scanned (imp. & p. p.) of Scan
Scanning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scan
Scan (v. t.) To mount by steps; to go through with step by step.
, a , or an . PCP. It is presumably an older spelling of scanned. --2. () Specifically (Pros.), to go through with, as a verse, marking and distinguishing the feet of which it is composed; to show, in reading, the metrical structure of; to recite metrically.
, a , or an . PCP. It is presumably an older spelling of scanned. --2. Specifically (Pros.), to go through with, as a verse, marking and distinguishing the feet of which it is composed; to show, in reading, the metrical structure of; to recite metrically () To go over and examine point by point; to examine with care; to look closely at or into; to scrutinize.
Scandal (n.) Offense caused or experienced; reproach or reprobation called forth by what is regarded as wrong, criminal, heinous, or flagrant: opprobrium or disgrace.
Scandal (n.) Reproachful aspersion; opprobrious censure; defamatory talk, uttered heedlessly or maliciously.
Scandal (n.) Anything alleged in pleading which is impertinent, and is reproachful to any person, or which derogates from the dignity of the court, or is contrary to good manners.
Scandal (v. t.) To treat opprobriously; to defame; to asperse; to traduce; to slander.
Scandal (v. t.) To scandalize; to offend.
Scandalized (imp. & p. p.) of Scandalize
Scandalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scandalize
Scandalize (v. t.) To offend the feelings or the conscience of (a person) by some action which is considered immoral or criminal; to bring shame, disgrace, or reproach upon.
Scandalize (v. t.) To reproach; to libel; to defame; to slander.
Scandalous (a.) Giving offense to the conscience or moral feelings; exciting reprobation; calling out condemnation.
Scandalous (a.) Disgraceful to reputation; bringing shame or infamy; opprobrious; as, a scandalous crime or vice.
Scandalous (a.) Defamatory; libelous; as, a scandalous story.
Scandalously (adv.) In a manner to give offense; shamefully.
Scandalously (adv.) With a disposition to impute immorality or wrong.
Scandalousness (n.) Quality of being scandalous.
Scandalum magnatum () A defamatory speech or writing published to the injury of a person of dignity; -- usually abbreviated scan. mag.
Scandent (a.) Climbing.
Scandia (n.) A chemical earth, the oxide of scandium.
Scandic (a.) Of or pertaining to scandium; derived from, or containing, scandium.
Scandinavian (a.) Of or pertaining to Scandinavia, that is, Sweden, Norway, and Denmark.
Scandinavian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Scandinavia.
Scandium (n.) A rare metallic element of the boron group, whose existence was predicted under the provisional name ekaboron by means of the periodic law, and subsequently discovered by spectrum analysis in certain rare Scandinavian minerals (euxenite and gadolinite). It has not yet been isolated. Symbol Sc. Atomic weight 44.
Scansion (n.) The act of scanning; distinguishing the metrical feet of a verse by emphasis, pauses, or otherwise.
Scansores (n. pl.) An artifical group of birds formerly regarded as an order. They are distributed among several orders by modern ornithologists.
Scansorial (a.) Capable of climbing; as, the woodpecker is a scansorial bird; adapted for climbing; as, a scansorial foot.
Scansorial (a.) Of or pertaining to the Scansores. See Illust.. under Aves.
Scant (superl.) Not full, large, or plentiful; scarcely sufficient; less than is wanted for the purpose; scanty; meager; not enough; as, a scant allowance of provisions or water; a scant pattern of cloth for a garment.
Scant (superl.) Sparing; parsimonious; chary.
Scanted (imp. & p. p.) of Scant
Scanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scant
Scant (v. t.) To limit; to straiten; to treat illiberally; to stint; as, to scant one in provisions; to scant ourselves in the use of necessaries.
Scant (v. t.) To cut short; to make small, narrow, or scanty; to curtail.
Scant (v. i.) To fail, or become less; to scantle; as, the wind scants.
Scant (adv.) In a scant manner; with difficulty; scarcely; hardly.
Scant (n.) Scantness; scarcity.
Scantily (adv.) In a scanty manner; not fully; not plentifully; sparingly; parsimoniously.
Scantiness (n.) Quality or condition of being scanty.
Scantle (v. i.) To be deficient; to fail.
Scantle (v. t.) To scant; to be niggard of; to divide into small pieces; to cut short or down.
Scantlet (n.) A small pattern; a small quantity.
Scantling (a.) Not plentiful; small; scanty.
Scantling (v. t.) A fragment; a bit; a little piece.
Scantling (v. t.) A piece or quantity cut for a special purpose; a sample.
Scantling (v. t.) A small quantity; a little bit; not much.
Scantling (v. t.) A piece of timber sawed or cut of a small size, as for studs, rails, etc.
Scantling (v. t.) The dimensions of a piece of timber with regard to its breadth and thickness; hence, the measure or dimensions of anything.
Scantling (v. t.) A rough draught; a rude sketch or outline.
Scantling (v. t.) A frame for casks to lie upon; a trestle.
Scantly (adv.) In a scant manner; not fully or sufficiently; narrowly; penuriously.
Scantly (adv.) Scarcely; hardly; barely.
Scantness (n.) The quality or condition of being scant; narrowness; smallness; insufficiency; scantiness.
Scanty (a.) Wanting amplitude or extent; narrow; small; not abundant.
Scanty (a.) Somewhat less than is needed; insufficient; scant; as, a scanty supply of words; a scanty supply of bread.
Scanty (a.) Sparing; niggardly; parsimonious.
Scape (n.) A peduncle rising from the ground or from a subterranean stem, as in the stemless violets, the bloodroot, and the like.
Scape (n.) The long basal joint of the antennae of an insect.
Scape (n.) The shaft of a column.
Scape (n.) The apophyge of a shaft.
Scaped (imp. & p. p.) of Scape
Scaping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scape
Scape (v. t. & i.) To escape.
Scape (n.) An escape.
Scape (n.) Means of escape; evasion.
Scape (n.) A freak; a slip; a fault; an escapade.
Scape (n.) Loose act of vice or lewdness.
Scapegallows (n.) One who has narrowly escaped the gallows for his crimes.
Scapegoat (n.) A goat upon whose head were symbolically placed the sins of the people, after which he was suffered to escape into the wilderness.
Scapegoat (n.) Hence, a person or thing that is made to bear blame for others.
Scapegrace (n.) A graceless, unprincipled person; one who is wild and reckless.
Scapeless (a.) Destitute of a scape.
Scapement (v.) Same as Escapement, 3.
Scape-wheel (n.) The wheel in an escapement (as of a clock or a watch) into the teeth of which the pallets play.
Scaphander (n.) The case, or impermeable apparel, in which a diver can work while under water.
Scaphism (n.) An ancient mode of punishing criminals among the Persians, by confining the victim in a trough, with his head and limbs smeared with honey or the like, and exposed to the sun and to insects until he died.
Scaphite (n.) Any fossil cephalopod shell of the genus Scaphites, belonging to the Ammonite family and having a chambered boat-shaped shell. Scaphites are found in the Cretaceous formation.
Scaphocephalic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or affected with, scaphocephaly.
Scaphocephaly (n.) A deformed condition of the skull, in which the vault is narrow, elongated, and more or less boat-shaped.
Scaphocerite (n.) A flattened plate or scale attached to the second joint of the antennae of many Crustacea.
Scaphognathite (n.) A thin leafike appendage (the exopodite) of the second maxilla of decapod crustaceans. It serves as a pumping organ to draw the water through the gill cavity.
Scaphoid (a.) Resembling a boat in form; boat-shaped.
Scaphoid (n.) The scaphoid bone.
Scapholunar (a.) Of or pertaining to the scaphoid and lunar bones of the carpus.
Scapholunar (n.) The scapholunar bone.
Scaphopda (n. pl.) A class of marine cephalate Mollusca having a tubular shell open at both ends, a pointed or spadelike foot for burrowing, and many long, slender, prehensile oral tentacles. It includes Dentalium, or the tooth shells, and other similar shells. Called also Prosopocephala, and Solenoconcha.
Scapiform (a.) Resembling a scape, or flower stem.
Scapolite (n.) A grayish white mineral occuring in tetragonal crystals and in cleavable masses. It is essentially a silicate of alumina and soda.
Scapple (v. t.) To work roughly, or shape without finishing, as stone before leaving the quarry.
Scapple (v. t.) To dress in any way short of fine tooling or rubbing, as stone.
Scapulae (pl. ) of Scapula
Scapulas (pl. ) of Scapula
Scapula (n.) The principal bone of the shoulder girdle in mammals; the shoulder blade.
Scapula (n.) One of the plates from which the arms of a crinoid arise.
Scapular (a.) Of or pertaining to the scapula or the shoulder.
Scapular (n.) One of a special group of feathers which arise from each of the scapular regions and lie along the sides of the back.
Scapular (n.) Alt. of Scapulary
Scapulary (n.) A loose sleeveless vestment falling in front and behind, worn by certain religious orders and devout persons.
Scapulary (n.) The name given to two pieces of cloth worn under the ordinary garb and over the shoulders as an act of devotion.
Scapulary (n.) A bandage passing over the shoulder to support it, or to retain another bandage in place.
Scapulary (a.) Same as Scapular, a.
Scapulary (n.) Same as 2d and 3d Scapular.
Scapulet (n.) A secondary mouth fold developed at the base of each of the armlike lobes of the manubrium of many rhizostome medusae. See Illustration in Appendix.
Scapulo- () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the scapula or the shoulder; as, the scapulo-clavicular articulation, the articulation between the scapula and clavicle.
Scapus (n.) See 1st Scape.
Scar (n.) A mark in the skin or flesh of an animal, made by a wound or ulcer, and remaining after the wound or ulcer is healed; a cicatrix; a mark left by a previous injury; a blemish; a disfigurement.
Scar (n.) A mark left upon a stem or branch by the fall of a leaf, leaflet, or frond, or upon a seed by the separation of its support. See Illust.. under Axillary.
Scarred (imp. & p. p.) of Scar
Scarring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scar
Scar (v. t.) To mark with a scar or scars.
Scar (v. i.) To form a scar.
Scar (n.) An isolated or protruding rock; a steep, rocky eminence; a bare place on the side of a mountain or steep bank of earth.
Scar (n.) A marine food fish, the scarus, or parrot fish.
Scarab (n.) Alt. of Scarabee
Scarabee (n.) Any one of numerous species of lamellicorn beetles of the genus Scarabaeus, or family Scarabaeidae, especially the sacred, or Egyptian, species (Scarabaeus sacer, and S. Egyptiorum).
Scarabee (n.) A stylized representation of a scarab beetle in stone or faience; -- a symbol of resurrection, used by the ancient Egyptians as an ornament or a talisman, and in modern times used in jewelry, usually by engraving designs on cabuchon stones. Also used attributively; as, a scarab bracelet [a bracelet containing scarabs]; a scarab [the carved stone itelf].
Scarabaeus (n.) Same as Scarab.
Scaraboid (a.) Of or pertaining to the family Scarabaeidae, an extensive group which includes the Egyptian scarab, the tumbledung, and many similar lamellicorn beetles.
Scaraboid (n.) A scaraboid beetle.
Scaramouch (n.) A personage in the old Italian comedy (derived from Spain) characterized by great boastfulness and poltroonery; hence, a person of like characteristics; a buffoon.
Scarce (superl.) Not plentiful or abundant; in small quantity in proportion to the demand; not easily to be procured; rare; uncommon.
Scarce (superl.) Scantily supplied (with); deficient (in); -- with of.
Scarce (superl.) Sparing; frugal; parsimonious; stingy.
Scarce (adv.) Alt. of Scarcely
Scarcely (adv.) With difficulty; hardly; scantly; barely; but just.
Scarcely (adv.) Frugally; penuriously.
Scarcement (n.) An offset where a wall or bank of earth, etc., retreats, leaving a shelf or footing.
Scarceness (n.) Alt. of Scarcity
Scarcity (n.) The quality or condition of being scarce; smallness of quantity in proportion to the wants or demands; deficiency; lack of plenty; short supply; penury; as, a scarcity of grain; a great scarcity of beauties.
Scard (n.) A shard or fragment.
Scared (imp. & p. p.) of Scare
Scaring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scare
Scare (v. t.) To frighten; to strike with sudden fear; to alarm.
Scare (n.) Fright; esp., sudden fright produced by a trifling cause, or originating in mistake.
Scarecrow (n.) Anything set up to frighten crows or other birds from cornfields; hence, anything terifying without danger.
Scarecrow (n.) A person clad in rags and tatters.
Scarecrow (n.) The black tern.
Scarefire (n.) An alarm of fire.
Scarefire (n.) A fire causing alarm.
Scarf (n.) A cormorant.
Scarfs (pl. ) of Scarf
Scarves (pl. ) of Scarf
Scarf (n.) An article of dress of a light and decorative character, worn loosely over the shoulders or about the neck or the waist; a light shawl or handkerchief for the neck; also, a cravat; a neckcloth.
Scarfed (imp. & p. p.) of Scarf
Scarfing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scarf
Scarf (v. t.) To throw on loosely; to put on like a scarf.
Scarf (v. t.) To dress with a scarf, or as with a scarf; to cover with a loose wrapping.
Scarf (v. t.) To form a scarf on the end or edge of, as for a joint in timber, metal rods, etc.
Scarf (v. t.) To unite, as two pieces of timber or metal, by a scarf joint.
Scarf (n.) In a piece which is to be united to another by a scarf joint, the part of the end or edge that is tapered off, rabbeted, or notched so as to be thinner than the rest of the piece.
Scarf (n.) A scarf joint.
Scarfskin (n.) See Epidermis.
Scarification (n.) The act of scarifying.
Scarificator (n.) An instrument, principally used in cupping, containing several lancets moved simultaneously by a spring, for making slight incisions.
Scarifier (n.) One who scarifies.
Scarifier (n.) The instrument used for scarifying.
Scarifier (n.) An implement for stripping and loosening the soil, without bringing up a fresh surface.
Scarified (imp. & p. p.) of Scarify
Scarifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scarify
Scarify (v. t.) To scratch or cut the skin of; esp. (Med.), to make small incisions in, by means of a lancet or scarificator, so as to draw blood from the smaller vessels without opening a large vein.
Scarify (v. t.) To stir the surface soil of, as a field.
Scariose (a.) Alt. of Scarious
Scarious (a.) Thin, dry, membranous, and not green.
Scarlatina (n.) Scarlet fever.
Scarless (a.) Free from scar.
Scarlet (n.) A deep bright red tinged with orange or yellow, -- of many tints and shades; a vivid or bright red color.
Scarlet (n.) Cloth of a scarlet color.
Scarlet (a.) Of the color called scarlet; as, a scarlet cloth or thread.
Scarlet (v. t.) To dye or tinge with scarlet.
Scarmage (n.) Alt. of Scarmoge
Scarmoge (n.) A slight contest; a skirmish. See Skirmish.
Scarn (n.) Dung.
Scaroid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Scaridae, a family of marine fishes including the parrot fishes.
Scarp (n.) A band in the same position as the bend sinister, but only half as broad as the latter.
Scarp (n.) The slope of the ditch nearest the parapet; the escarp.
Scarp (n.) A steep descent or declivity.
Scarped (imp. & p. p.) of Scarp
Scarping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scarp
Scarp (v. t.) To cut down perpendicularly, or nearly so; as, to scarp the face of a ditch or a rock.
Scarring (n.) A scar; a mark.
Scarry (a.) Bearing scars or marks of wounds.
Scarry (a.) Like a scar, or rocky eminence; containing scars.
Scarus (n.) A Mediterranean food fish (Sparisoma scarus) of excellent quality and highly valued by the Romans; -- called also parrot fish.
Scary (n.) Barren land having only a thin coat of grass.
Scary (a.) Subject to sudden alarm.
Scary (a.) Causing fright; alarming.
Scasely (adv.) Scarcely; hardly.
Scat (interj.) Go away; begone; away; -- chiefly used in driving off a cat.
Scat (n.) Alt. of Scatt
Scatt (n.) Tribute.
Scat (n.) A shower of rain.
Scatch (n.) A kind of bit for the bridle of a horse; -- called also scatchmouth.
Scatches (n. pl.) Stilts.
Scate (n.) See Skate, for the foot.
Scatebrous (a.) Abounding with springs.
Scath (v.) Harm; damage; injury; hurt; waste; misfortune.
Scathed (imp. & p. p.) of Scath
Scathing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scath
Scathe (v. t.) Alt. of Scath
Scath (v. t.) To do harm to; to injure; to damage; to waste; to destroy.
Scathful (a.) Harmful; doing damage; pernicious.
Scathless (a.) Unharmed.
Scathly (a.) Injurious; scathful.
Scattered (imp. & p. p.) of Scatter
Scattering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scatter
Scatter (v. t.) To strew about; to sprinkle around; to throw down loosely; to deposit or place here and there, esp. in an open or sparse order.
Scatter (v. t.) To cause to separate in different directions; to reduce from a close or compact to a loose or broken order; to dissipate; to disperse.
Scatter (v. t.) Hence, to frustrate, disappoint, and overthrow; as, to scatter hopes, plans, or the like.
Scatter (v. i.) To be dispersed or dissipated; to disperse or separate; as, clouds scatter after a storm.
Scatter-brain (n.) A giddy or thoughtless person; one incapable of concentration or attention.
Scatter-brained (a.) Giddy; thoughtless.
Scattered (a.) Dispersed; dissipated; sprinkled, or loosely spread.
Scattered (a.) Irregular in position; having no regular order; as, scattered leaves.
Scattergood (n.) One who wastes; a spendthrift.
Scattering (a.) Going or falling in various directions; not united or aggregated; divided among many; as, scattering votes.
Scattering (n.) Act of strewing about; something scattered.
Scatteringly (adv.) In a scattering manner; dispersedly.
Scatterling (n.) One who has no fixed habitation or residence; a vagabond.
Scaturient (a.) Gushing forth; full to overflowing; effusive.
Scaturiginous (a.) Abounding with springs.
Scaup (n.) A bed or stratum of shellfish; scalp.
Scaup (n.) A scaup duck. See below.
Scauper (n.) A tool with a semicircular edge, -- used by engravers to clear away the spaces between the lines of an engraving.
Scaur (n.) A precipitous bank or rock; a scar.
Scavage (n.) A toll or duty formerly exacted of merchant strangers by mayors, sheriffs, etc., for goods shown or offered for sale within their precincts.
Scavenge (v. t.) To cleanse, as streets, from filth.
Scavenger (v.) A person whose employment is to clean the streets of a city, by scraping or sweeping, and carrying off the filth. The name is also applied to any animal which devours refuse, carrion, or anything injurious to health.
Scazon (n.) A choliamb.
Scelerat (n.) A villain; a criminal.
Scelestic (a.) Evil; wicked; atrocious.
Scelet (n.) A mummy; a skeleton.
Scena (n.) A scene in an opera.
Scena (n.) An accompanied dramatic recitative, interspersed with passages of melody, or followed by a full aria.
Scenario (n.) A preliminary sketch of the plot, or main incidents, of an opera.
Scenary (n.) Scenery.
Scene (n.) The structure on which a spectacle or play is exhibited; the part of a theater in which the acting is done, with its adjuncts and decorations; the stage.
Scene (n.) The decorations and fittings of a stage, representing the place in which the action is supposed to go on; one of the slides, or other devices, used to give an appearance of reality to the action of a play; as, to paint scenes; to shift the scenes; to go behind the scenes.
Scene (n.) So much of a play as passes without change of locality or time, or important change of character; hence, a subdivision of an act; a separate portion of a play, subordinate to the act, but differently determined in different plays; as, an act of four scenes.
Scene (n.) The place, time, circumstance, etc., in which anything occurs, or in which the action of a story, play, or the like, is laid; surroundings amid which anything is set before the imagination; place of occurrence, exhibition, or action.
Scene (n.) An assemblage of objects presented to the view at once; a series of actions and events exhibited in their connection; a spectacle; a show; an exhibition; a view.
Scene (n.) A landscape, or part of a landscape; scenery.
Scene (n.) An exhibition of passionate or strong feeling before others; often, an artifical or affected action, or course of action, done for effect; a theatrical display.
Scene (v. t.) To exhibit as a scene; to make a scene of; to display.
Sceneful (a.) Having much scenery.
Scenemen (pl. ) of Sceneman
Sceneman (n.) The man who manages the movable scenes in a theater.
Scenery (n.) Assemblage of scenes; the paintings and hangings representing the scenes of a play; the disposition and arrangement of the scenes in which the action of a play, poem, etc., is laid; representation of place of action or occurence.
Scenery (n.) Sum of scenes or views; general aspect, as regards variety and beauty or the reverse, in a landscape; combination of natural views, as woods, hills, etc.
Sceneshifter (n.) One who moves the scenes in a theater; a sceneman.
Scenic (a.) Alt. of Scenical
Scenical (a.) Of or pertaining to scenery; of the nature of scenery; theatrical.
Scenograph (n.) A perspective representation or general view of an object.
Scenographic (a.) Alt. of Scenographical
Scenographical (a.) Of or pertaining to scenography; drawn in perspective.
Scenography (n.) The art or act of representing a body on a perspective plane; also, a representation or description of a body, in all its dimensions, as it appears to the eye.
Scented (imp. & p. p.) of Scent
Scenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scent
Scent (v. t.) To perceive by the olfactory organs; to smell; as, to scent game, as a hound does.
Scent (v. t.) To imbue or fill with odor; to perfume.
Scent (v. i.) To have a smell.
Scent (v. i.) To hunt animals by means of the sense of smell.
Scent (n.) That which, issuing from a body, affects the olfactory organs of animals; odor; smell; as, the scent of an orange, or of a rose; the scent of musk.
Scent (n.) Specifically, the odor left by an animal on the ground in passing over it; as, dogs find or lose the scent; hence, course of pursuit; track of discovery.
Scent (n.) The power of smelling; the sense of smell; as, a hound of nice scent; to divert the scent.
Scentful (a.) Full of scent or odor; odorous.
Scentful (a.) Of quick or keen smell.
Scentingly (adv.) By scent.
Scentless (a.) Having no scent.
Scepsis (n.) Skepticism; skeptical philosophy.
Scepter (n.) Alt. of Sceptre
Sceptre (n.) A staff or baton borne by a sovereign, as a ceremonial badge or emblem of authority; a royal mace.
Sceptre (n.) Hence, royal or imperial power or authority; sovereignty; as, to assume the scepter.
Sceptered (imp. & p. p.) of Sceptre
Sceptred () of Sceptre
Sceptering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sceptre
Sceptring () of Sceptre
Scepter (v. t.) Alt. of Sceptre
Sceptre (v. t.) To endow with the scepter, or emblem of authority; to invest with royal authority.
Scepterellate (a.) Having a straight shaft with whorls of spines; -- said of certain sponge spicules. See Illust. under Spicule.
Scepterless (a.) Alt. of Sceptreless
Sceptreless (a.) Having no scepter; without authority; powerless; as, a scepterless king.
Sceptic () Alt. of Scepticism
Sceptical () Alt. of Scepticism
Scepticism () etc. See Skeptic, Skeptical, Skepticism, etc.
Sceptral (a.) Of or pertaining to a scepter; like a scepter.
Scern (v. t.) To discern; to perceive.
Schade (n.) Shade; shadow.
Schah (n.) See Shah.
Schediasm (n.) Cursory writing on a loose sheet.
Schedule (n.) A written or printed scroll or sheet of paper; a document; especially, a formal list or inventory; a list or catalogue annexed to a larger document, as to a will, a lease, a statute, etc.
Schedule (v. t.) To form into, or place in, a schedule.
Scheele's green () See under Green.
Scheelin (n.) Scheelium.
Scheelite (n.) Calcium tungstate, a mineral of a white or pale yellowish color and of the tetragonal system of crystallization.
Scheelium (n.) The metal tungsten.
Scheik (n.) See Sheik.
Schelly (n.) The powan.
Schemata (pl. ) of Schema
Schemas (pl. ) of Schema
Schema (n.) An outline or image universally applicable to a general conception, under which it is likely to be presented to the mind; as, five dots in a line are a schema of the number five; a preceding and succeeding event are a schema of cause and effect.
Schematic (a.) Of or pertaining to a scheme or a schema.
Schematism (n.) Combination of the aspects of heavenly bodies.
Schematism (n.) Particular form or disposition of a thing; an exhibition in outline of any systematic arrangement.
Schematist (n.) One given to forming schemes; a projector; a schemer.
Schematize (v. i.) To form a scheme or schemes.
Scheme (n.) A combination of things connected and adjusted by design; a system.
Scheme (n.) A plan or theory something to be done; a design; a project; as, to form a scheme.
Scheme (n.) Any lineal or mathematical diagram; an outline.
Scheme (n.) A representation of the aspects of the celestial bodies for any moment or at a given event.
Schemed (imp. & p. p.) of Scheme
Scheming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scheme
Scheme (v. t.) To make a scheme of; to plan; to design; to project; to plot.
Scheme (v. i.) To form a scheme or schemes.
Schemeful (a.) Full of schemes or plans.
Schemer (n.) One who forms schemes; a projector; esp., a plotter; an intriguer.
Scheming (a.) Given to forming schemes; artful; intriguing.
Schemist (n.) A schemer.
Schene (n.) An Egyptian or Persian measure of length, varying from thirty-two to sixty stadia.
Schenkbeer (n.) A mild German beer.
Scherbet (n.) See Sherbet.
Scherif (n.) See Sherif.
Scherzando (adv.) In a playful or sportive manner.
Scherzo (n.) A playful, humorous movement, commonly in 3-4 measure, which often takes the place of the old minuet and trio in a sonata or a symphony.
Schesis (n.) General state or disposition of the body or mind, or of one thing with regard to other things; habitude.
Schesis (n.) A figure of speech whereby the mental habitude of an adversary or opponent is feigned for the purpose of arguing against him.
Schetic (a.) Alt. of Schetical
Schetical (a.) Of or pertaining to the habit of the body; constitutional.
Schiedam (n.) Holland gin made at Schiedam in the Netherlands.
Schiller (n.) The peculiar bronzelike luster observed in certain minerals, as hypersthene, schiller spar, etc. It is due to the presence of minute inclusions in parallel position, and is sometimes of secondary origin.
Schilerization (n.) The act or process of producing schiller in a mineral mass.
Schilling (n.) Any one of several small German and Dutch coins, worth from about one and a half cents to about five cents.
Schindylesis (n.) A form of articulation in which one bone is received into a groove or slit in another.
Schirrhus (n.) See Scirrhus.
Schism (n.) Division or separation; specifically (Eccl.), permanent division or separation in the Christian church; breach of unity among people of the same religious faith; the offense of seeking to produce division in a church without justifiable cause.
Schisma (n.) An interval equal to half a comma.
Schismatic (a.) Of or pertaining to schism; implying schism; partaking of the nature of schism; tending to schism; as, schismatic opinions or proposals.
Schismatic (n.) One who creates or takes part in schism; one who separates from an established church or religious communion on account of a difference of opinion.
Schismatical (a.) Same as Schismatic.
Schismatized (imp. & p. p.) of Schismatize
Schismatizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Schismatize
Schismatize (v. i.) To take part in schism; to make a breach of communion in the church.
Schismless (a.) Free from schism.
Schist (n.) Any crystalline rock having a foliated structure (see Foliation) and hence admitting of ready division into slabs or slates. The common kinds are mica schist, and hornblendic schist, consisting chiefly of quartz with mica or hornblende and often feldspar.
Schistaceous (a.) Of a slate color.
Schistic (a.) Schistose.
Schistose (a.) Alt. of Schistous
Schistous (a.) Of or pertaining to schist; having the structure of a schist.
Schistosity (n.) The quality or state of being schistose.
Schizo- () A combining form denoting division or cleavage; as, schizogenesis, reproduction by fission or cell division.
Schizocarp (n.) A dry fruit which splits at maturity into several closed one-seeded portions.
Schizocoele (n.) See Enterocoele.
Schizocoelous (a.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a schizocoele.
Schizogenesis (n.) Reproduction by fission.
Schizognath (n.) Any bird with a schizognathous palate.
Schizognathae (n. pl.) The schizognathous birds.
Schizognathism (n.) The condition of having a schizognathous palate.
Schizognathous (a.) Having the maxillo-palatine bones separate from each other and from the vomer, which is pointed in front, as in the gulls, snipes, grouse, and many other birds.
Schizomycetes (n. pl.) An order of Schizophyta, including the so-called fission fungi, or bacteria. See Schizophyta, in the Supplement.
Schizonemertea (n. pl.) A group of nemerteans comprising those having a deep slit along each side of the head. See Illust. in Appendix.
Schizopelmous (a.) Having the two flexor tendons of the toes entirely separate, and the flexor hallucis going to the first toe only.
Schizophyte (n.) One of a class of vegetable organisms, in the classification of Cohn, which includes all of the inferior forms that multiply by fission, whether they contain chlorophyll or not.
Schizopod (n.) one of the Schizopoda. Also used adjectively.
Schizopod (a.) Alt. of Schizopodous
Schizopodous (a.) Of or pertaining to a schizopod, or the Schizopoda.
Schizopoda (n. pl.) A division of shrimplike Thoracostraca in which each of the thoracic legs has a long fringed upper branch (exopodite) for swimming.
Scizorhinal (a.) Having the nasal bones separate.
Scizorhinal (a.) Having the anterior nostrils prolonged backward in the form of a slit.
Schlich (n.) The finer portion of a crushed ore, as of gold, lead, or tin, separated by the water in certain wet processes.
Schmelze (n.) A kind of glass of a red or ruby color, made in Bohemia.
Schnapps (n.) Holland gin.
Schneiderian (a.) Discovered or described by C. V. Schneider, a German anatomist of the seventeenth century.
Schoharie grit () The formation belonging to the middle of the three subdivisions of the Corniferous period in the American Devonian system; -- so called from Schoharie, in New York, where it occurs. See the Chart of Geology.
Scholar (n.) One who attends a school; one who learns of a teacher; one under the tuition of a preceptor; a pupil; a disciple; a learner; a student.
Scholar (n.) One engaged in the pursuits of learning; a learned person; one versed in any branch, or in many branches, of knowledge; a person of high literary or scientific attainments; a savant.
Scholar (n.) A man of books.
Scholar (n.) In English universities, an undergraduate who belongs to the foundation of a college, and receives support in part from its revenues.
Scholarity (n.) Scholarship.
Scholarlike (a.) Scholarly.
Scholarly (a.) Like a scholar, or learned person; showing the qualities of a scholar; as, a scholarly essay or critique.
Scholarly (adv.) In a scholarly manner.
Scholarship (n.) The character and qualities of a scholar; attainments in science or literature; erudition; learning.
Scholarship (n.) Literary education.
Scholarship (n.) Maintenance for a scholar; a foundation for the support of a student.
Scholastic (a.) Pertaining to, or suiting, a scholar, a school, or schools; scholarlike; as, scholastic manners or pride; scholastic learning.
Scholastic (a.) Of or pertaining to the schoolmen and divines of the Middle Ages (see Schoolman); as, scholastic divinity or theology; scholastic philosophy.
Scholastic (a.) Hence, characterized by excessive subtilty, or needlessly minute subdivisions; pedantic; formal.
Scholastic (n.) One who adheres to the method or subtilties of the schools.
Scholastic (n.) See the Note under Jesuit.
Scholastical (a. & n.) Scholastic.
Scholastically (adv.) In a scholastic manner.
Scholasticism (n.) The method or subtilties of the schools of philosophy; scholastic formality; scholastic doctrines or philosophy.
Scholia (n. pl.) See Scholium.
Scholiast (n.) A maker of scholia; a commentator or annotator.
Scholiastic (a.) Of or pertaining to a scholiast, or his pursuits.
Scholiaze (v. i.) To write scholia.
Scholical (a.) Scholastic.
Scholion (n.) A scholium.
Scholia (pl. ) of Scholium
Scholiums (pl. ) of Scholium
Scholium (n.) A marginal annotation; an explanatory remark or comment; specifically, an explanatory comment on the text of a classic author by an early grammarian.
Scholium (n.) A remark or observation subjoined to a demonstration or a train of reasoning.
Scholy (n.) A scholium.
Scholy (v. i. & t.) To write scholia; to annotate.
School (n.) A shoal; a multitude; as, a school of fish.
School (n.) A place for learned intercourse and instruction; an institution for learning; an educational establishment; a place for acquiring knowledge and mental training; as, the school of the prophets.
School (n.) A place of primary instruction; an establishment for the instruction of children; as, a primary school; a common school; a grammar school.
School (n.) A session of an institution of instruction.
School (n.) One of the seminaries for teaching logic, metaphysics, and theology, which were formed in the Middle Ages, and which were characterized by academical disputations and subtilties of reasoning.
School (n.) The room or hall in English universities where the examinations for degrees and honors are held.
School (n.) An assemblage of scholars; those who attend upon instruction in a school of any kind; a body of pupils.
School (n.) The disciples or followers of a teacher; those who hold a common doctrine, or accept the same teachings; a sect or denomination in philosophy, theology, science, medicine, politics, etc.
School (n.) The canons, precepts, or body of opinion or practice, sanctioned by the authority of a particular class or age; as, he was a gentleman of the old school.
School (n.) Figuratively, any means of knowledge or discipline; as, the school of experience.
Schooled (imp. & p. p.) of School
Schooling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of School
School (v. t.) To train in an institution of learning; to educate at a school; to teach.
School (v. t.) To tutor; to chide and admonish; to reprove; to subject to systematic discipline; to train.
Schoolbook (n.) A book used in schools for learning lessons.
Schoolboy (n.) A boy belonging to, or attending, a school.
Schooldame (n.) A schoolmistress.
Schoolery (n.) Something taught; precepts; schooling.
Schoolfellow (n.) One bred at the same school; an associate in school.
Schoolgirl (n.) A girl belonging to, or attending, a school.
Schoolhouse (n.) A house appropriated for the use of a school or schools, or for instruction.
Schooling (n.) Instruction in school; tuition; education in an institution of learning; act of teaching.
Schooling (n.) Discipline; reproof; reprimand; as, he gave his son a good schooling.
Schooling (n.) Compensation for instruction; price or reward paid to an instructor for teaching pupils.
Schooling (a.) Collecting or running in schools or shoals.
Schoolma'am (n.) A schoolmistress.
Schoolmaid (n.) A schoolgirl.
Schoolmen (pl. ) of Schoolman
Schoolman (n.) One versed in the niceties of academical disputation or of school divinity.
Schoolmaster (n.) The man who presides over and teaches a school; a male teacher of a school.
Schoolmaster (n.) One who, or that which, disciplines and directs.
Schoolmate (n.) A pupil who attends the same school as another.
Schoolmistress (n.) A woman who governs and teaches a school; a female school-teacher.
Schoolroom (n.) A room in which pupils are taught.
Schoolship (n.) A vessel employed as a nautical training school, in which naval apprentices receive their education at the expense of the state, and are trained for service as sailors. Also, a vessel used as a reform school to which boys are committed by the courts to be disciplined, and instructed as mariners.
School-teacher (n.) One who teaches or instructs a school.
Schoolward (adv.) Toward school.
Schooner (n.) Originally, a small, sharp-built vessel, with two masts and fore-and-aft rig. Sometimes it carried square topsails on one or both masts and was called a topsail schooner. About 1840, longer vessels with three masts, fore-and-aft rigged, came into use, and since that time vessels with four masts and even with six masts, so rigged, are built. Schooners with more than two masts are designated three-masted schooners, four-masted schooners, etc. See Illustration in Appendix.
Schooner (n.) A large goblet or drinking glass, -- used for lager beer or ale.
Schorl (n.) Black tourmaline.
Schorlaceous (a.) Partaking of the nature and character of schorl; resembling schorl.
Schorlous (a.) Schorlaceous.
Schorly (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, schorl; as, schorly granite.
Schottish (n.) Alt. of Schottische
Schottische (n.) A Scotch round dance in 2-4 time, similar to the polka, only slower; also, the music for such a dance; -- not to be confounded with the Ecossaise.
Schreibersite (n.) A mineral occurring in steel-gray flexible folia. It contains iron, nickel, and phosphorus, and is found only in meteoric iron.
Schrode (n.) See Scrod.
Schwann's sheath () The neurilemma.
Schwann's white substance () The substance of the medullary sheath.
Schwanpan (n.) Chinese abacus.
Schweitzerkase (n.) Gruyere cheese.
Schwenkfelder (n.) Alt. of Schwenkfeldian
Schwenkfeldian (n.) A member of a religious sect founded by Kaspar von Schwenkfeld, a Silesian reformer who disagreed with Luther, especially on the deification of the body of Christ.
Sciaenoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Sciaenidae, a family of marine fishes which includes the meagre, the squeteague, and the kingfish.
Sciagraph (n.) An old term for a vertical section of a building; -- called also sciagraphy. See Vertical section, under Section.
Sciagraph (n.) A radiograph.
Sciagraphical (a.) Pertaining to sciagraphy.
Sciagraphy (n.) The art or science of projecting or delineating shadows as they fall in nature.
Sciagraphy (n.) Same as Sciagraph.
Sciamachy (n.) See Sciomachy.
Sciatheric (a.) Alt. of Sciatherical
Sciatherical (a.) Belonging to a sundial.
Sciatic (a.) Of or pertaining to the hip; in the region of, or affecting, the hip; ischial; ischiatic; as, the sciatic nerve, sciatic pains.
Sciatic (n.) Sciatica.
Sciatica (n.) Neuralgia of the sciatic nerve, an affection characterized by paroxysmal attacks of pain in the buttock, back of the thigh, or in the leg or foot, following the course of the branches of the sciatic nerve. The name is also popularly applied to various painful affections of the hip and the parts adjoining it. See Ischiadic passion, under Ischiadic.
Sciatical (a.) Sciatic.
Sciatically (adv.) With, or by means of, sciatica.
Scibboleth (n.) Shibboleth.
Science (n.) Knowledge; knowledge of principles and causes; ascertained truth of facts.
Science (n.) Accumulated and established knowledge, which has been systematized and formulated with reference to the discovery of general truths or the operation of general laws; knowledge classified and made available in work, life, or the search for truth; comprehensive, profound, or philosophical knowledge.
Science (n.) Especially, such knowledge when it relates to the physical world and its phenomena, the nature, constitution, and forces of matter, the qualities and functions of living tissues, etc.; -- called also natural science, and physical science.
Science (n.) Any branch or department of systematized knowledge considered as a distinct field of investigation or object of study; as, the science of astronomy, of chemistry, or of mind.
Science (n.) Art, skill, or expertness, regarded as the result of knowledge of laws and principles.
Science (v. t.) To cause to become versed in science; to make skilled; to instruct.
Scient (a.) Knowing; skillful.
Scienter (adv.) Knowingly; willfully.
Sciential (a.) Pertaining to, or producing, science.
Scientific (a.) Of or pertaining to science; used in science; as, scientific principles; scientific apparatus; scientific observations.
Scientific (a.) Agreeing with, or depending on, the rules or principles of science; as, a scientific classification; a scientific arrangement of fossils.
Scientific (a.) Having a knowledge of science, or of a science; evincing science or systematic knowledge; as, a scientific chemist; a scientific reasoner; a scientific argument.
Scientifical (a.) Scientific.
Scientifically (adv.) In a scientific manner; according to the rules or principles of science.
Scientist (n.) One learned in science; a scientific investigator; one devoted to scientific study; a savant.
Scilicet (adv.) To wit; namely; videlicet; -- often abbreviated to sc., or ss.
Scillain (n.) A glucoside extracted from squill (Scilla) as a light porous substance.
Scillitin (n.) A bitter principle extracted from the bulbs of the squill (Scilla), and probably consisting of a complex mixture of several substances.
Scimiter (n.) Alt. of Scimitar
Scimitar (n.) A saber with a much curved blade having the edge on the convex side, -- in use among Mohammedans, esp., the Arabs and persians.
Scimitar (n.) A long-handled billhook. See Billhook.
Scincoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the family Scincidae, or skinks.
Scincoid (n.) A scincoidian.
Scincoidea (n. pl.) A tribe of lizards including the skinks. See Skink.
Scincoidian (n.) Any one of numerous species of lizards of the family Scincidae or tribe Scincoidea. The tongue is not extensile. The body and tail are covered with overlapping scales, and the toes are margined. See Illust. under Skink.
Sciniph (n.) Some kind of stinging or biting insect, as a flea, a gnat, a sandfly, or the like.
Scink (n.) A skink.
Scink (n.) A slunk calf.
Scintilla (n.) A spark; the least particle; an iota; a tittle.
Scintillant (a.) Emitting sparks, or fine igneous particles; sparkling.
Scintillated (imp. & p. p.) of Scintillate
Scintillating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scintillate
Scintillate (v. i.) To emit sparks, or fine igneous particles.
Scintillate (v. i.) To sparkle, as the fixed stars.
Scintillation (n.) The act of scintillating.
Scintillation (n.) A spark or flash emitted in scintillating.
Scintillous (a.) Scintillant.
Scintillously (adv.) In a scintillant manner.
Sciography (n.) See Sciagraphy.
Sciolism (n.) The knowledge of a sciolist; superficial knowledge.
Sciolist (n.) One who knows many things superficially; a pretender to science; a smatterer.
Sciolistic (a.) Of or pertaining to sciolism, or a sciolist; partaking of sciolism; resembling a sciolist.
Sciolous (a.) Knowing superficially or imperfectly.
Sciomachy (n.) A fighting with a shadow; a mock contest; an imaginary or futile combat.
Sciomancy (n.) Divination by means of shadows.
Scion (n.) A shoot or sprout of a plant; a sucker.
Scion (n.) A piece of a slender branch or twig cut for grafting.
Scion (n.) Hence, a descendant; an heir; as, a scion of a royal stock.
Scioptic (a.) Of or pertaining to an optical arrangement for forming images in a darkened room, usually called scioptic ball.
Sciopticon (n.) A kind of magic lantern.
Scioptics (n.) The art or process of exhibiting luminous images, especially those of external objects, in a darkened room, by arrangements of lenses or mirrors.
Scioptric (a.) Scioptic.
Sciot (a.) Of or pertaining to the island Scio (Chio or Chios).
Sciot (n.) A native or inhabitant of Scio.
Sciotheric (a.) Of or pertaining to a sundial.
Scious (a.) Knowing; having knowledge.
Scire facias () A judicial writ, founded upon some record, and requiring the party proceeded against to show cause why the party bringing it should not have advantage of such record, or (as in the case of scire facias to repeal letters patent) why the record should not be annulled or vacated.
Scirrhoid (a.) Resembling scirrhus.
Scirrhosity (n.) A morbid induration, as of a gland; state of being scirrhous.
Scirrhous (a.) Proceeding from scirrhus; of the nature of scirrhus; indurated; knotty; as, scirrhous affections; scirrhous disease.
Scirrhi (pl. ) of Scirrhus
Scirrhuses (pl. ) of Scirrhus
Scirrhus (n.) An indurated organ or part; especially, an indurated gland.
Scirrhus (n.) A cancerous tumor which is hard, translucent, of a gray or bluish color, and emits a creaking sound when incised.
Sciscitation (n.) The act of inquiring; inquiry; demand.
Scise (v. i.) To cut; to penetrate.
Scissel (n.) The clippings of metals made in various mechanical operations.
Scissel (n.) The slips or plates of metal out of which circular blanks have been cut for the purpose of coinage.
Scissible (a.) Capable of being cut or divided by a sharp instrument.
Scissil (n.) See Scissel.
Scissile (a.) Capable of being cut smoothly; scissible.
Scission (n.) The act of dividing with an instrument having a sharp edge.
Scissiparity (n.) Reproduction by fission.
Scissor (v. t.) To cut with scissors or shears; to prepare with the aid of scissors.
Scissors (n. pl.) A cutting instrument resembling shears, but smaller, consisting of two cutting blades with handles, movable on a pin in the center, by which they are held together. Often called a pair of scissors.
Scissorsbill (n.) See Skimmer.
Scissorstail (n.) A tyrant flycatcher (Milvulus forficatus) of the Southern United States and Mexico, which has a deeply forked tail. It is light gray above, white beneath, salmon on the flanks, and fiery red at the base of the crown feathers.
Scissors-tailed (a.) Having the outer feathers much the longest, the others decreasing regularly to the median ones.
Scissure (n.) A longitudinal opening in a body, made by cutting; a cleft; a fissure.
Scitamineous (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Scitamineae), mostly tropical herbs, including the ginger, Indian shot, banana, and the plants producing turmeric and arrowroot.
Sciurine (a.) Of or pertaining to the Squirrel family.
Sciurine (n.) A rodent of the Squirrel family.
Sciuroid (a.) Resembling the tail of a squirrel; -- generally said of branches which are close and dense, or of spikes of grass like barley.
Sciuromorpha (n. pl.) A tribe of rodents containing the squirrels and allied animals, such as the gophers, woodchucks, beavers, and others.
Sciurus (n.) A genus of rodents comprising the common squirrels.
Sclaundre (n.) Slander.
Sclav (n.) Alt. of Sclave
Sclave (n.) Same as Slav.
Sclavic (a.) Same as Slavic.
Sclavism (n.) Same as Slavism.
Sclavonian (a. & n.) Same as Slavonian.
Sclavonic (a.) Same as Slavonic.
Sclender (a.) Slender.
Scleragogy (n.) Severe discipline.
Sclerema (n.) Induration of the cellular tissue.
Sclerenchyma (n.) Vegetable tissue composed of short cells with thickened or hardened walls, as in nutshells and the gritty parts of a pear. See Sclerotic.
Sclerenchyma (n.) The hard calcareous deposit in the tissues of Anthozoa, constituting the stony corals.
Sclerenchymatous (a.) Pertaining to, or composed of, sclerenchyma.
Sclerenchyme (n.) Sclerenchyma.
Scleriasis (n.) A morbid induration of the edge of the eyelid.
Scleriasis (n.) Induration of any part, including scleroderma.
Sclerite (n.) A hard chitinous or calcareous process or corpuscle, especially a spicule of the Alcyonaria.
Scleritis (n.) See Sclerotitis.
Sclerobase (n.) The calcareous or hornlike coral forming the central stem or axis of most compound alcyonarians; -- called also foot secretion. See Illust. under Gorgoniacea, and Coenenchyma.
Scleroderm (n.) One of a tribe of plectognath fishes (Sclerodermi) having the skin covered with hard scales, or plates, as the cowfish and the trunkfish.
Scleroderm (n.) One of the Sclerodermata.
Scleroderm (n.) Hardened, or bony, integument of various animals.
Scleroderma (n.) A disease of adults, characterized by a diffuse rigidity and hardness of the skin.
Sclerodermata (n. pl.) The stony corals; the Madreporaria.
Sclerodermic () Alt. of Sclerodermous
Sclerodermous () Having the integument, or skin, hard, or covered with hard plates.
Sclerodermous () Of or pertaining to the Sclerodermata.
Sclerodermite (n.) The hard integument of Crustacea.
Sclerodermite (n.) Sclerenchyma.
Sclerogen (n.) The thickening matter of woody cells; lignin.
Sclerogenous (a.) Making or secreting a hard substance; becoming hard.
Scleroid (a.) Having a hard texture, as nutshells.
Scleroma (n.) Induration of the tissues. See Sclerema, Scleroderma, and Sclerosis.
Sclerometer (n.) An instrument for determining with accuracy the degree of hardness of a mineral.
Sclerosed (a.) Affected with sclerosis.
Sclerosis (n.) Induration; hardening; especially, that form of induration produced in an organ by increase of its interstitial connective tissue.
Sclerosis (n.) Hardening of the cell wall by lignification.
Scleroskeleton (n.) That part of the skeleton which is developed in tendons, ligaments, and aponeuroses.
Sclerotal (a.) Sclerotic.
Sclerotal (n.) The optic capsule; the sclerotic coat of the eye.
Sclerotic (a.) Hard; firm; indurated; -- applied especially in anatomy to the firm outer coat of the eyeball, which is often cartilaginous and sometimes bony.
Sclerotic (a.) Of or pertaining to the sclerotic coat of the eye; sclerotical.
Sclerotic (a.) Affected with sclerosis; sclerosed.
Sclerotic (n.) The sclerotic coat of the eye. See Illust. of Eye (d).
Sclerotic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from ergot or the sclerotium of a fungus growing on rye.
Sclerotical (a.) Sclerotic.
Sclerotitis (n.) Inflammation of the sclerotic coat.
Sclerotia (pl. ) of Sclerotium
Sclerotium (n.) A hardened body formed by certain fungi, as by the Claviceps purpurea, which produces ergot.
Sclerotium (n.) The mature or resting stage of a plasmodium.
Sclerotome (n.) One of the bony, cartilaginous, or membranous partitions which separate the myotomes.
Sclerous (a.) Hard; indurated; sclerotic.
Scoat (v. t.) To prop; to scotch.
Scobby (n.) The chaffinch.
Scobiform (a.) Having the form of, or resembling, sawdust or raspings.
Scobs (n. sing. & pl.) Raspings of ivory, hartshorn, metals, or other hard substance.
Scobs (n. sing. & pl.) The dross of metals.
Scoff (n.) Derision; ridicule; mockery; derisive or mocking expression of scorn, contempt, or reproach.
Scoff (n.) An object of scorn, mockery, or derision.
Scoffed (imp. & p. p.) of Scoff
Scoffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scoff
Scoff (n.) To show insolent ridicule or mockery; to manifest contempt by derisive acts or language; -- often with at.
Scoff (v. t.) To treat or address with derision; to assail scornfully; to mock at.
Scoffer (n.) One who scoffs.
Scoffery (n.) The act of scoffing; scoffing conduct; mockery.
Scoffingly (adv.) In a scoffing manner.
Scoke (n.) Poke (Phytolacca decandra).
Scolay (v. i.) See Scoley.
Scolded (imp. & p. p.) of Scold
Scolding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scold
Scold (v. i.) To find fault or rail with rude clamor; to brawl; to utter harsh, rude, boisterous rebuke; to chide sharply or coarsely; -- often with at; as, to scold at a servant.
Scold (v. t.) To chide with rudeness and clamor; to rate; also, to rebuke or reprove with severity.
Scold (n.) One who scolds, or makes a practice of scolding; esp., a rude, clamorous woman; a shrew.
Scold (n.) A scolding; a brawl.
Scolder (n.) One who scolds.
Scolder (n.) The oyster catcher; -- so called from its shrill cries.
Scolder (n.) The old squaw.
Scolding () a. & n. from Scold, v.
Scoldingly (adv.) In a scolding manner.
Scole (n.) School.
Scolecida (n. pl.) Same as Helminthes.
Scolecite (n.) A zeolitic mineral occuring in delicate radiating groups of white crystals. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina and lime. Called also lime mesotype.
Scolecomorpha (n. pl.) Same as Scolecida.
Scoleces (pl. ) of Scolex
Scolex (n.) The embryo produced directly from the egg in a metagenetic series, especially the larva of a tapeworm or other parasitic worm. See Illust. of Echinococcus.
Scolex (n.) One of the Scolecida.
Scoley (v. i.) To go to school; to study.
Scoliosis (n.) A lateral curvature of the spine.
Scolithus (n.) A tubular structure found in Potsdam sandstone, and believed to be the fossil burrow of a marine worm.
Scollop (n. & v.) See Scallop.
Scolopacine (a.) Of or pertaining to the Scolopacidae, or Snipe family.
Scolopendra (n.) A genus of venomous myriapods including the centipeds. See Centiped.
Scolopendra (n.) A sea fish.
Scolopendrine (a.) Like or pertaining to the Scolopendra.
Scolytid (n.) Any one of numerous species of small bark-boring beetles of the genus Scolytus and allied genera. Also used adjectively.
Scomber (n.) A genus of acanthopterygious fishes which includes the common mackerel.
Scomberoid (a. & n.) Same as Scombroid.
Scombriformes (n. pl.) A division of fishes including the mackerels, tunnies, and allied fishes.
Scombroid (a.) Like or pertaining to the Mackerel family.
Scombroid (n.) Any fish of the family Scombridae, of which the mackerel (Scomber) is the type.
Scomfish (v. t. & i.) To suffocate or stifle; to smother.
Scomfit (n. & v.) Discomfit.
Scomm (n.) A buffoon.
Scomm (n.) A flout; a jeer; a gibe; a taunt.
Sconce (p. p.) A fortification, or work for defense; a fort.
Sconce (p. p.) A hut for protection and shelter; a stall.
Sconce (p. p.) A piece of armor for the head; headpiece; helmet.
Sconce (p. p.) Fig.: The head; the skull; also, brains; sense; discretion.
Sconce (p. p.) A poll tax; a mulct or fine.
Sconce (p. p.) A protection for a light; a lantern or cased support for a candle; hence, a fixed hanging or projecting candlestick.
Sconce (p. p.) Hence, the circular tube, with a brim, in a candlestick, into which the candle is inserted.
Sconce (p. p.) A squinch.
Sconce (p. p.) A fragment of a floe of ice.
Sconce (p. p.) A fixed seat or shelf.
Sconced (imp. & p. p.) of Sconce
Sconcing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sconce
Sconce (v. t.) To shut up in a sconce; to imprison; to insconce.
Sconce (v. t.) To mulct; to fine.
Sconcheon (n.) A squinch.
Scone (n.) A cake, thinner than a bannock, made of wheat or barley or oat meal.
Scoop (n.) A large ladle; a vessel with a long handle, used for dipping liquids; a utensil for bailing boats.
Scoop (n.) A deep shovel, or any similar implement for digging out and dipping or shoveling up anything; as, a flour scoop; the scoop of a dredging machine.
Scoop (n.) A spoon-shaped instrument, used in extracting certain substances or foreign bodies.
Scoop (n.) A place hollowed out; a basinlike cavity; a hollow.
Scoop (n.) A sweep; a stroke; a swoop.
Scoop (n.) The act of scooping, or taking with a scoop or ladle; a motion with a scoop, as in dipping or shoveling.
Scooped (imp. & p. p.) of Scoop
Scooping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scoop
Scoop (n.) To take out or up with, a scoop; to lade out.
Scoop (n.) To empty by lading; as, to scoop a well dry.
Scoop (n.) To make hollow, as a scoop or dish; to excavate; to dig out; to form by digging or excavation.
Scooper (n.) One who, or that which, scoops.
Scooper (n.) The avocet; -- so called because it scoops up the mud to obtain food.
Scoot (v. i.) To walk fast; to go quickly; to run hastily away.
Scoparin (n.) A yellow gelatinous or crystalline substance found in broom (Cytisus scoparius) accompanying sparteine.
Scopate (a.) Having the surface closely covered with hairs, like a brush.
-scope () A combining form usually signifying an instrument for viewing (with the eye) or observing (in any way); as in microscope, telescope, altoscope, anemoscope.
Scope (n.) That at which one aims; the thing or end to which the mind directs its view; that which is purposed to be reached or accomplished; hence, ultimate design, aim, or purpose; intention; drift; object.
Scope (n.) Room or opportunity for free outlook or aim; space for action; amplitude of opportunity; free course or vent; liberty; range of view, intent, or action.
Scope (n.) Extended area.
Scope (n.) Length; extent; sweep; as, scope of cable.
Scope (v. t.) To look at for the purpose of evaluation; usually with out; as, to scope out the area as a camping site.
Scopeline (a.) Scopeloid.
Scopeloid (a.) Like or pertaining to fishes of the genus Scopelus, or family Scopelodae, which includes many small oceanic fishes, most of which are phosphorescent.
Scopeloid (n.) Any fish of the family Scopelidae.
Scopiferous (a.) Bearing a tuft of brushlike hairs.
Scopiform (a.) Having the form of a broom or besom.
Scopiped (n.) Same as Scopuliped.
Scoppet (v. t.) To lade or dip out.
Scops owl () Any one of numerous species of small owls of the genus Scops having ear tufts like those of the horned owls, especially the European scops owl (Scops giu), and the American screech owl (S. asio).
Scoptic (a.) Alt. of Scoptical
Scoptical (a.) Jesting; jeering; scoffing.
Scopulas (pl. ) of Scopula
Scopulae (pl. ) of Scopula
Scopula (n.) A peculiar brushlike organ found on the foot of spiders and used in the construction of the web.
Scopula (n.) A special tuft of hairs on the leg of a bee.
Scopuliped (n.) Any species of bee which has on the hind legs a brush of hairs used for collecting pollen, as the hive bees and bumblebees.
Scopulous (a.) Full of rocks; rocky.
Scorbute (n.) Scurvy.
Scorbutic (a.) Alt. of Scorbutical
Scorbutical (a.) Of or pertaining to scurvy; of the nature of, or resembling, scurvy; diseased with scurvy; as, a scorbutic person; scorbutic complaints or symptoms.
Scorbutus (n.) Scurvy.
Scorce (n.) Barter.
Scorched (imp. & p. p.) of Scorch
Scorching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scorch
Scorch (v. t.) To burn superficially; to parch, or shrivel, the surface of, by heat; to subject to so much heat as changes color and texture without consuming; as, to scorch linen.
Scorch (v. t.) To affect painfully with heat, or as with heat; to dry up with heat; to affect as by heat.
Scorch (v. t.) To burn; to destroy by, or as by, fire.
Scorch (v. i.) To be burnt on the surface; to be parched; to be dried up.
Scorch (v. i.) To burn or be burnt.
Scorching (a.) Burning; parching or shriveling with heat.
Score (n.) A notch or incision; especially, one that is made as a tally mark; hence, a mark, or line, made for the purpose of account.
Score (n.) An account or reckoning; account of dues; bill; hence, indebtedness.
Score (n.) Account; reason; motive; sake; behalf.
Score (n.) The number twenty, as being marked off by a special score or tally; hence, in pl., a large number.
Score (n.) A distance of twenty yards; -- a term used in ancient archery and gunnery.
Score (n.) A weight of twenty pounds.
Score (n.) The number of points gained by the contestants, or either of them, in any game, as in cards or cricket.
Score (n.) A line drawn; a groove or furrow.
Score (n.) The original and entire draught, or its transcript, of a composition, with the parts for all the different instruments or voices written on staves one above another, so that they can be read at a glance; -- so called from the bar, which, in its early use, was drawn through all the parts.
Scored (imp. & p. p.) of Score
Scoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Score
Score (v. t.) To mark with lines, scratches, or notches; to cut notches or furrows in; to notch; to scratch; to furrow; as, to score timber for hewing; to score the back with a lash.
Score (v. t.) Especially, to mark with significant lines or notches, for indicating or keeping account of something; as, to score a tally.
Score (v. t.) To mark or signify by lines or notches; to keep record or account of; to set down; to record; to charge.
Score (v. t.) To engrave, as upon a shield.
Score (v. t.) To make a score of, as points, runs, etc., in a game.
Score (v. t.) To write down in proper order and arrangement; as, to score an overture for an orchestra. See Score, n., 9.
Score (n.) To mark with parallel lines or scratches; as, the rocks of New England and the Western States were scored in the drift epoch.
Scorer (n.) One who, or that which, scores.
Scoriae (pl. ) of Scoria
Scoria (n.) The recrement of metals in fusion, or the slag rejected after the reduction of metallic ores; dross.
Scoria (n.) Cellular slaggy lava; volcanic cinders.
Scoriac (a.) Scoriaceous.
Scoriaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to scoria; like scoria or the recrement of metals; partaking of the nature of scoria.
Scorie (n.) The young of any gull.
Scorification (n.) The act, process, or result of scorifying, or reducing to a slag; hence, the separation from earthy matter by means of a slag; as, the scorification of ores.
Scorifier (n.) One who, or that which, scorifies; specifically, a small flat bowl-shaped cup used in the first heating in assaying, to remove the earth and gangue, and to concentrate the gold and silver in a lead button.
Scoriform (a.) In the form of scoria.
Scorified (imp. & p. p.) of Scorify
Scorifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scorify
Scorify (v. t.) To reduce to scoria or slag; specifically, in assaying, to fuse so as to separate the gangue and earthy material, with borax, lead, soda, etc., thus leaving the gold and silver in a lead button; hence, to separate from, or by means of, a slag.
Scorious (a.) Scoriaceous.
Scorn (n.) Extreme and lofty contempt; haughty disregard; that disdain which springs from the opinion of the utter meanness and unworthiness of an object.
Scorn (n.) An act or expression of extreme contempt.
Scorn (n.) An object of extreme disdain, contempt, or derision.
Scorned (imp. & p. p.) of Scorn
Scoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scorn
Scorn (n.) To hold in extreme contempt; to reject as unworthy of regard; to despise; to contemn; to disdain.
Scorn (n.) To treat with extreme contempt; to make the object of insult; to mock; to scoff at; to deride.
Scorn (v. i.) To scoff; to mock; to show contumely, derision, or reproach; to act disdainfully.
Scorner (n.) One who scorns; a despiser; a contemner; specifically, a scoffer at religion.
Scornful (a.) Full of scorn or contempt; contemptuous; disdainful.
Scornful (a.) Treated with scorn; exciting scorn.
Scorny (a.) Deserving scorn; paltry.
Scorodite (n.) A leek-green or brownish mineral occurring in orthorhombic crystals. It is a hydrous arseniate of iron.
Scorpaenoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the family Scorpaenidae, which includes the scorpene, the rosefish, the California rockfishes, and many other food fishes. [Written also scorpaenid.] See Illust. under Rockfish.
Scorpene (n.) A marine food fish of the genus Scorpaena, as the European hogfish (S. scrofa), and the California species (S. guttata).
Scorper (n.) Same as Scauper.
Scorpiones (pl. ) of Scorpio
Scorpio (n.) A scorpion.
Scorpio (n.) The eighth sign of the zodiac, which the sun enters about the twenty-third day of October, marked thus [/] in almanacs.
Scorpio (n.) A constellation of the zodiac containing the bright star Antares. It is drawn on the celestial globe in the figure of a scorpion.
Scorpiodea (n. pl.) Same as Scorpiones.
Scorpioid (a.) Alt. of Scorpioidal
Scorpioidal (a.) Having the inflorescence curved or circinate at the end, like a scorpion's tail.
Scorpion (n.) Any one of numerous species of pulmonate arachnids of the order Scorpiones, having a suctorial mouth, large claw-bearing palpi, and a caudal sting.
Scorpion (n.) The pine or gray lizard (Sceloporus undulatus).
Scorpion (n.) The scorpene.
Scorpion (n.) A painful scourge.
Scorpion (n.) A sign and constellation. See Scorpio.
Scorpion (n.) An ancient military engine for hurling stones and other missiles.
Scorpiones (n. pl.) A division of arachnids comprising the scorpions.
Scorpionidea (n. pl.) Same as Scorpiones.
Scorpionwort (n.) A leguminous plant (Ornithopus scorpioides) of Southern Europe, having slender curved pods.
Scorse (n.) Barter; exchange; trade.
Scorse (v. t.) To barter or exchange.
Scorse (v. t.) To chase.
Scorse (v. i.) To deal for the purchase of anything; to practice barter.
Scortatory (a.) Pertaining to lewdness or fornication; lewd.
Scot (n.) A name for a horse.
Scot (n.) A native or inhabitant of Scotland; a Scotsman, or Scotchman.
Scot (n.) A portion of money assessed or paid; a tax or contribution; a mulct; a fine; a shot.
Scotal (n.) Alt. of Scotale
Scotale (n.) The keeping of an alehouse by an officer of a forest, and drawing people to spend their money for liquor, for fear of his displeasure.
Scotch (a.) Of or pertaining to Scotland, its language, or its inhabitants; Scottish.
Scotch (n.) The dialect or dialects of English spoken by the people of Scotland.
Scotch (n.) Collectively, the people of Scotland.
Scotched (imp. & p. p.) of Scotch
Scotching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scotch
Scotch (v. t.) To shoulder up; to prop or block with a wedge, chock, etc., as a wheel, to prevent its rolling or slipping.
Scotch (n.) A chock, wedge, prop, or other support, to prevent slipping; as, a scotch for a wheel or a log on inclined ground.
Scotch (v. t.) To cut superficially; to wound; to score.
Scotch (n.) A slight cut or incision; a score.
Scotch-hopper (n.) Hopscotch.
Scotching (n.) Dressing stone with a pick or pointed instrument.
Scotchmen (pl. ) of Scotchman
Scotchman (n.) A native or inhabitant of Scotland; a Scot; a Scotsman.
Scotchman (n.) A piece of wood or stiff hide placed over shrouds and other rigging to prevent chafe by the running gear.
Scoter (n.) Any one of several species of northern sea ducks of the genus Oidemia.
Scot-free (a.) Free from payment of scot; untaxed; hence, unhurt; clear; safe.
Scoth (v. t.) To clothe or cover up.
Scotia (n.) A concave molding used especially in classical architecture.
Scotia (n.) Scotland
Scotist (n.) A follower of (Joannes) Duns Scotus, the Franciscan scholastic (d. 1308), who maintained certain doctrines in philosophy and theology, in opposition to the Thomists, or followers of Thomas Aquinas, the Dominican scholastic.
Scotograph (n.) An instrument for writing in the dark, or without seeing.
Scotoma (n.) Scotomy.
Scotomy (n.) Dizziness with dimness of sight.
Scotomy (n.) Obscuration of the field of vision due to the appearance of a dark spot before the eye.
Scotoscope (n.) An instrument that discloses objects in the dark or in a faint light.
Scots (a.) Of or pertaining to the Scotch; Scotch; Scottish; as, Scots law; a pound Scots (1s. 8d.).
Scotsman (n.) See Scotchman.
Scottering (n.) The burning of a wad of pease straw at the end of harvest.
Scotticism (n.) An idiom, or mode of expression, peculiar to Scotland or Scotchmen.
Scotticize (v. t.) To cause to become like the Scotch; to make Scottish.
Scottish (a.) Of or pertaining to the inhabitants of Scotland, their country, or their language; as, Scottish industry or economy; a Scottish chief; a Scottish dialect.
Scoundrel (n.) A mean, worthless fellow; a rascal; a villain; a man without honor or virtue.
Scoundrel (a.) Low; base; mean; unprincipled.
Scoundreldom (n.) The domain or sphere of scoundrels; scoundrels, collectively; the state, ideas, or practices of scoundrels.
Scoundrelism (n.) The practices or conduct of a scoundrel; baseness; rascality.
Scoured (imp. & p. p.) of Scour
Scouring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scour
Scour (v. t.) To rub hard with something rough, as sand or Bristol brick, especially for the purpose of cleaning; to clean by friction; to make clean or bright; to cleanse from grease, dirt, etc., as articles of dress.
Scour (v. t.) To purge; as, to scour a horse.
Scour (v. t.) To remove by rubbing or cleansing; to sweep along or off; to carry away or remove, as by a current of water; -- often with off or away.
Scour (v. t.) To pass swiftly over; to brush along; to traverse or search thoroughly; as, to scour the coast.
Scour (v. i.) To clean anything by rubbing.
Scour (v. i.) To cleanse anything.
Scour (v. i.) To be purged freely; to have a diarrhoea.
Scour (v. i.) To run swiftly; to rove or range in pursuit or search of something; to scamper.
Scour (n.) Diarrhoea or dysentery among cattle.
Scourage (n.) Refuse water after scouring.
Scourer (n.) One who, or that which, scours.
Scourer (n.) A rover or footpad; a prowling robber.
Scourge (n.) A lash; a strap or cord; especially, a lash used to inflict pain or punishment; an instrument of punishment or discipline; a whip.
Scourge (n.) Hence, a means of inflicting punishment, vengeance, or suffering; an infliction of affliction; a punishment.
Scourged (imp. & p. p.) of Scourge
Scourging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scourge
Scourge (n.) To whip severely; to lash.
Scourge (n.) To punish with severity; to chastise; to afflict, as for sins or faults, and with the purpose of correction.
Scourge (n.) To harass or afflict severely.
Scourger (n.) One who scourges or punishes; one who afflicts severely.
Scourse (v. t.) See Scorse.
Scouse (n.) A sailor's dish. Bread scouse contains no meat; lobscouse contains meat, etc. See Lobscouse.
Scout (n.) A swift sailing boat.
Scout (n.) A projecting rock.
Scout (v. t.) To reject with contempt, as something absurd; to treat with ridicule; to flout; as, to scout an idea or an apology.
Scout (n.) A person sent out to gain and bring in tidings; especially, one employed in war to gain information of the movements and condition of an enemy.
Scout (n.) A college student's or undergraduate's servant; -- so called in Oxford, England; at Cambridge called a gyp; and at Dublin, a skip.
Scout (n.) A fielder in a game for practice.
Scout (n.) The act of scouting or reconnoitering.
Scouted (imp. & p. p.) of Scout
Scouting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scout
Scout (v. t.) To observe, watch, or look for, as a scout; to follow for the purpose of observation, as a scout.
Scout (v. t.) To pass over or through, as a scout; to reconnoiter; as, to scout a country.
Scout (v. i.) To go on the business of scouting, or watching the motions of an enemy; to act as a scout.
Scovel (n.) A mop for sweeping ovens; a malkin.
Scow (n.) A large flat-bottomed boat, having broad, square ends.
Scow (v. t.) To transport in a scow.
Scowled (imp. & p. p.) of Scowl
Scowling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scowl
Scowl (v. i.) To wrinkle the brows, as in frowning or displeasure; to put on a frowning look; to look sour, sullen, severe, or angry.
Scowl (v. i.) Hence, to look gloomy, dark, or threatening; to lower.
Scowl (v. t.) To look at or repel with a scowl or a frown.
Scowl (v. t.) To express by a scowl; as, to scowl defiance.
Scowl (n.) The wrinkling of the brows or face in frowing; the expression of displeasure, sullenness, or discontent in the countenance; an angry frown.
Scowl (n.) Hence, gloom; dark or threatening aspect.
Scowlingly (adv.) In a scowling manner.
Scrabbed eggs () A Lenten dish, composed of eggs boiled hard, chopped, and seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper.
Scrabbled (imp. & p. p.) of Scrabble
Scrabbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scrabble
Scrabble (v. t.) To scrape, paw, or scratch with the hands; to proceed by clawing with the hands and feet; to scramble; as, to scrabble up a cliff or a tree.
Scrabble (v. t.) To make irregular, crooked, or unmeaning marks; to scribble; to scrawl.
Scrabble (v. t.) To mark with irregular lines or letters; to scribble; as, to scrabble paper.
Scrabble (n.) The act of scrabbling; a moving upon the hands and knees; a scramble; also, a scribble.
Scraber (n.) The Manx shearwater.
Scraber (n.) The black guillemot.
Scraffle (v. i.) To scramble or struggle; to wrangle; also, to be industrious.
Scrag (n.) Something thin, lean, or rough; a bony piece; especially, a bony neckpiece of meat; hence, humorously or in contempt, the neck.
Scrag (n.) A rawboned person.
Scrag (n.) A ragged, stunted tree or branch.
Scragged (a.) Rough with irregular points, or a broken surface; scraggy; as, a scragged backbone.
Scragged (a.) Lean and rough; scraggy.
Scraggedness (n.) Quality or state of being scragged.
Scraggily (adv.) In a scraggy manner.
Scragginess (n.) The quality or state of being scraggy; scraggedness.
Scraggy (superl.) Rough with irregular points; scragged.
Scraggy (superl.) Lean and rough; scragged.
Scragly (a.) See Scraggy.
Scrag-necked (a.) Having a scraggy neck.
Scrambled (imp. & p. p.) of Scramble
Scrambling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scramble
Scramble (v. i.) To clamber with hands and knees; to scrabble; as, to scramble up a cliff; to scramble over the rocks.
Scramble (v. i.) To struggle eagerly with others for something thrown upon the ground; to go down upon all fours to seize something; to catch rudely at what is desired.
Scramble (v. t.) To collect by scrambling; as, to scramble up wealth.
Scramble (v. t.) To prepare (eggs) as a dish for the table, by stirring the yolks and whites together while cooking.
Scramble (n.) The act of scrambling, climbing on all fours, or clambering.
Scramble (n.) The act of jostling and pushing for something desired; eager and unceremonious struggle for what is thrown or held out; as, a scramble for office.
Scrambler (n.) One who scrambles; one who climbs on all fours.
Scrambler (n.) A greedy and unceremonious contestant.
Scrambling (a.) Confused and irregular; awkward; scambling.
Scranched (imp. & p. p.) of Scranch
Scranching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scranch
Scranch (v. t.) To grind with the teeth, and with a crackling sound; to craunch.
Scranky (a.) Thin; lean.
Scrannel (a.) Slight; thin; lean; poor.
Scranny (a.) Thin; lean; meager; scrawny; scrannel.
Scrap (v. t.) Something scraped off; hence, a small piece; a bit; a fragment; a detached, incomplete portion.
Scrap (v. t.) Specifically, a fragment of something written or printed; a brief excerpt; an unconnected extract.
Scrap (v. t.) The crisp substance that remains after drying out animal fat; as, pork scraps.
Scrap (v. t.) Same as Scrap iron, below.
Scrapbook (n.) A blank book in which extracts cut from books and papers may be pasted and kept.
Scraped (imp. & p. p.) of Scrape
Scraping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scrape
Scrape (v. t.) To rub over the surface of (something) with a sharp or rough instrument; to rub over with something that roughens by removing portions of the surface; to grate harshly over; to abrade; to make even, or bring to a required condition or form, by moving the sharp edge of an instrument breadthwise over the surface with pressure, cutting away excesses and superfluous parts; to make smooth or clean; as, to scrape a bone with a knife; to scrape a metal plate to an even surface.
Scrape (v. t.) To remove by rubbing or scraping (in the sense above).
Scrape (v. t.) To collect by, or as by, a process of scraping; to gather in small portions by laborious effort; hence, to acquire avariciously and save penuriously; -- often followed by together or up; as, to scrape money together.
Scrape (v. t.) To express disapprobation of, as a play, or to silence, as a speaker, by drawing the feet back and forth upon the floor; -- usually with down.
Scrape (v. i.) To rub over the surface of anything with something which roughens or removes it, or which smooths or cleans it; to rub harshly and noisily along.
Scrape (v. i.) To occupy one's self with getting laboriously; as, he scraped and saved until he became rich.
Scrape (v. i.) To play awkwardly and inharmoniously on a violin or like instrument.
Scrape (v. i.) To draw back the right foot along the ground or floor when making a bow.
Scrape (n.) The act of scraping; also, the effect of scraping, as a scratch, or a harsh sound; as, a noisy scrape on the floor; a scrape of a pen.
Scrape (n.) A drawing back of the right foot when bowing; also, a bow made with that accompaniment.
Scrape (n.) A disagreeable and embarrassing predicament out of which one can not get without undergoing, as it were, a painful rubbing or scraping; a perplexity; a difficulty.
Scrapepenny (n.) One who gathers and hoards money in trifling sums; a miser.
Scraper (n.) An instrument with which anything is scraped.
Scraper (n.) An instrument by which the soles of shoes are cleaned from mud and the like, by drawing them across it.
Scraper (n.) An instrument drawn by oxen or horses, used for scraping up earth in making or repairing roads, digging cellars, canals etc.
Scraper (n.) An instrument having two or three sharp sides or edges, for cleaning the planks, masts, or decks of a ship.
Scraper (n.) In the printing press, a board, or blade, the edge of which is made to rub over the tympan sheet and thus produce the impression.
Scraper (n.) One who scrapes.
Scraper (n.) One who plays awkwardly on a violin.
Scraper (n.) One who acquires avariciously and saves penuriously.
Scraping (n.) The act of scraping; the act or process of making even, or reducing to the proper form, by means of a scraper.
Scraping (n.) Something scraped off; that which is separated from a substance, or is collected by scraping; as, the scraping of the street.
Scraping (a.) Resembling the act of, or the effect produced by, one who, or that which, scrapes; as, a scraping noise; a scraping miser.
Scrappily (adv.) In a scrappy manner; in scraps.
Scrappy (a.) Consisting of scraps; fragmentary; lacking unity or consistency; as, a scrappy lecture.
Scrat (v. t.) To scratch.
Scrat (v. i.) To rake; to search.
Scrat (n.) An hermaphrodite.
Scratched (imp. & p. p.) of Scratch
Scratching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scratch
Scratch (v. t.) To rub and tear or mark the surface of with something sharp or ragged; to scrape, roughen, or wound slightly by drawing something pointed or rough across, as the claws, the nails, a pin, or the like.
Scratch (v. t.) To write or draw hastily or awkwardly.
Scratch (v. t.) To cancel by drawing one or more lines through, as the name of a candidate upon a ballot, or of a horse in a list; hence, to erase; to efface; -- often with out.
Scratch (v. t.) To dig or excavate with the claws; as, some animals scratch holes, in which they burrow.
Scratch (v. i.) To use the claws or nails in tearing or in digging; to make scratches.
Scratch (v. i.) To score, not by skillful play but by some fortunate chance of the game.
Scratch (n.) A break in the surface of a thing made by scratching, or by rubbing with anything pointed or rough; a slight wound, mark, furrow, or incision.
Scratch (n.) A line across the prize ring; up to which boxers are brought when they join fight; hence, test, trial, or proof of courage; as, to bring to the scratch; to come up to the scratch.
Scratch (n.) Minute, but tender and troublesome, excoriations, covered with scabs, upon the heels of horses which have been used where it is very wet or muddy.
Scratch (n.) A kind of wig covering only a portion of the head.
Scratch (n.) A shot which scores by chance and not as intended by the player; a fluke.
Scratch (a.) Made, done, or happening by chance; arranged with little or no preparation; determined by circumstances; haphazard; as, a scratch team; a scratch crew for a boat race; a scratch shot in billiards.
Scratchback (n.) A toy which imitates the sound of tearing cloth, -- used by drawing it across the back of unsuspecting persons.
Scratchbrush (n.) A stiff wire brush for cleaning iron castings and other metal.
Scratch coat () The first coat in plastering; -- called also scratchwork. See Pricking-up.
Scratcher (n.) One who, or that which, scratches; specifically (Zool.), any rasorial bird.
Scratching (adv.) With the action of scratching.
Scratchweed (n.) Cleavers.
Scratchwork (n.) See Scratch coat.
Scratchy (a.) Characterized by scratches.
Scraw (n.) A turf.
Scrawl (v. i.) See Crawl.
Scrawled (imp. & p. p.) of Scrawl
Scrawling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scrawl
Scrawl (v. t.) To draw or mark awkwardly and irregularly; to write hastily and carelessly; to scratch; to scribble; as, to scrawl a letter.
Scrawl (v. i.) To write unskillfully and inelegantly.
Scrawl (n.) Unskillful or inelegant writing; that which is unskillfully or inelegantly written.
Scrawler (n.) One who scrawls; a hasty, awkward writer.
Scrawny (a.) Meager; thin; rawboned; bony; scranny.
Scray (n.) A tern; the sea swallow.
Screable (a.) Capable of being spit out.
Screaked (imp. & p. p.) of Screak
Screaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Screak
Screak (v.) To utter suddenly a sharp, shrill sound; to screech; to creak, as a door or wheel.
Screak (n.) A creaking; a screech; a shriek.
Screamed (imp. & p. p.) of Scream
Screaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scream
Scream (v. i.) To cry out with a shrill voice; to utter a sudden, sharp outcry, or shrill, loud cry, as in fright or extreme pain; to shriek; to screech.
Scream (n.) A sharp, shrill cry, uttered suddenly, as in terror or in pain; a shriek; a screech.
Screamer (n.) Any one of three species of South American birds constituting the family Anhimidae, and the suborder Palamedeae. They have two spines on each wing, and the head is either crested or horned. They are easily tamed, and then serve as guardians for other poultry. The crested screamers, or chajas, belong to the genus Chauna. The horned screamer, or kamichi, is Palamedea cornuta.
Screaming (a.) Uttering screams; shrieking.
Screaming (a.) Having the nature of a scream; like a scream; shrill; sharp.
Scree (n.) A pebble; a stone; also, a heap of stones or rocky debris.
Screeched (imp. & p. p.) of Screech
Screeching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Screech
Screech (v.) To utter a harsh, shrill cry; to make a sharp outcry, as in terror or acute pain; to scream; to shriek.
Screech (n.) A harsh, shrill cry, as of one in acute pain or in fright; a shriek; a scream.
Screechers (n. pl.) The picarian birds, as distinguished from the singing birds.
Screechy (a.) Like a screech; shrill and harsh.
Screed (n.) A strip of plaster of the thickness proposed for the coat, applied to the wall at intervals of four or five feet, as a guide.
Screed (n.) A wooden straightedge used to lay across the plaster screed, as a limit for the thickness of the coat.
Screed (n.) A fragment; a portion; a shred.
Screed (n.) A breach or rent; a breaking forth into a loud, shrill sound; as, martial screeds.
Screed (n.) An harangue; a long tirade on any subject.
Screen (n.) Anything that separates or cuts off inconvenience, injury, or danger; that which shelters or conceals from view; a shield or protection; as, a fire screen.
Screen (n.) A dwarf wall or partition carried up to a certain height for separation and protection, as in a church, to separate the aisle from the choir, or the like.
Screen (n.) A surface, as that afforded by a curtain, sheet, wall, etc., upon which an image, as a picture, is thrown by a magic lantern, solar microscope, etc.
Screen (n.) A long, coarse riddle or sieve, sometimes a revolving perforated cylinder, used to separate the coarser from the finer parts, as of coal, sand, gravel, and the like.
Screened (imp. & p. p.) of Screen
Screening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Screen
Screen (v. t.) To provide with a shelter or means of concealment; to separate or cut off from inconvenience, injury, or danger; to shelter; to protect; to protect by hiding; to conceal; as, fruits screened from cold winds by a forest or hill.
Screen (v. t.) To pass, as coal, gravel, ashes, etc., through a screen in order to separate the coarse from the fine, or the worthless from the valuable; to sift.
Screenings (n. pl.) The refuse left after screening sand, coal, ashes, etc.
Screw (n.) A cylinder, or a cylindrical perforation, having a continuous rib, called the thread, winding round it spirally at a constant inclination, so as to leave a continuous spiral groove between one turn and the next, -- used chiefly for producing, when revolved, motion or pressure in the direction of its axis, by the sliding of the threads of the cylinder in the grooves between the threads of the perforation adapted to it, the former being distinguished as the external, or male screw, or, more usually the screw; the latter as the internal, or female screw, or, more usually, the nut.
Screw (n.) Specifically, a kind of nail with a spiral thread and a head with a nick to receive the end of the screw-driver. Screws are much used to hold together pieces of wood or to fasten something; -- called also wood screws, and screw nails. See also Screw bolt, below.
Screw (n.) Anything shaped or acting like a screw; esp., a form of wheel for propelling steam vessels. It is placed at the stern, and furnished with blades having helicoidal surfaces to act against the water in the manner of a screw. See Screw propeller, below.
Screw (n.) A steam vesel propelled by a screw instead of wheels; a screw steamer; a propeller.
Screw (n.) An extortioner; a sharp bargainer; a skinflint; a niggard.
Screw (n.) An instructor who examines with great or unnecessary severity; also, a searching or strict examination of a student by an instructor.
Screw (n.) A small packet of tobacco.
Screw (n.) An unsound or worn-out horse, useful as a hack, and commonly of good appearance.
Screw (n.) A straight line in space with which a definite linear magnitude termed the pitch is associated (cf. 5th Pitch, 10 (b)). It is used to express the displacement of a rigid body, which may always be made to consist of a rotation about an axis combined with a translation parallel to that axis.
Screw (n.) An amphipod crustacean; as, the skeleton screw (Caprella). See Sand screw, under Sand.
Screwed (imp. & p. p.) of Screw
Screwing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Screw
Screw (v. t.) To turn, as a screw; to apply a screw to; to press, fasten, or make firm, by means of a screw or screws; as, to screw a lock on a door; to screw a press.
Screw (v. t.) To force; to squeeze; to press, as by screws.
Screw (v. t.) Hence: To practice extortion upon; to oppress by unreasonable or extortionate exactions.
Screw (v. t.) To twist; to distort; as, to screw his visage.
Screw (v. t.) To examine rigidly, as a student; to subject to a severe examination.
Screw (v. i.) To use violent mans in making exactions; to be oppressive or exacting.
Screw (v. i.) To turn one's self uneasily with a twisting motion; as, he screws about in his chair.
Screw-cutting (a.) Adapted for forming a screw by cutting; as, a screw-cutting lathe.
Screw-driver (n.) A tool for turning screws so as to drive them into their place. It has a thin end which enters the nick in the head of the screw.
Screwer (n.) One who, or that which, screws.
Screwing () a. & n. from Screw, v. t.
Scribable (a.) Capable of being written, or of being written upon.
Scribatious (a.) Skillful in, or fond of, writing.
Scribbet (n.) A painter's pencil.
Scribble (v. t.) To card coarsely; to run through the scribbling machine.
Scribbled (imp. & p. p.) of Scribble
Scribbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scribble
Scribble (v. t.) To write hastily or carelessly, without regard to correctness or elegance; as, to scribble a letter.
Scribble (v. t.) To fill or cover with careless or worthless writing.
Scribble (v. i.) To write without care, elegance, or value; to scrawl.
Scribble (n.) Hasty or careless writing; a writing of little value; a scrawl; as, a hasty scribble.
Scribblement (n.) A scribble.
Scribbler (n.) One who scribbles; a petty author; a writer of no reputation; a literary hack.
Scribbler (n.) A scribbling machine.
Scribbling (n.) The act or process of carding coarsely.
Scribbling (a.) Writing hastily or poorly.
Scribbling (n.) The act of writing hastily or idly.
Scribblingly (adv.) In a scribbling manner.
Scribe (n.) One who writes; a draughtsman; a writer for another; especially, an offical or public writer; an amanuensis or secretary; a notary; a copyist.
Scribe (n.) A writer and doctor of the law; one skilled in the law and traditions; one who read and explained the law to the people.
Scribed (imp. & p. p.) of Scribe
Scribing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scribe
Scribe (v. t.) To write, engrave, or mark upon; to inscribe.
Scribe (v. t.) To cut (anything) in such a way as to fit closely to a somewhat irregular surface, as a baseboard to a floor which is out of level, a board to the curves of a molding, or the like; -- so called because the workman marks, or scribe, with the compasses the line that he afterwards cuts.
Scribe (v. t.) To score or mark with compasses or a scribing iron.
Scribe (v. i.) To make a mark.
Scriber (n.) A sharp-pointed tool, used by joiners for drawing lines on stuff; a marking awl.
Scribism (n.) The character and opinions of a Jewish scribe in the time of Christ.
Scrid (n.) A screed; a shred; a fragment.
Scriggle (v. i.) To wriggle.
Scrim (n.) A kind of light cotton or linen fabric, often woven in openwork patterns, -- used for curtains, etc,; -- called also India scrim.
Scrim (n.) Thin canvas glued on the inside of panels to prevent shrinking, checking, etc.
Scrimer (n.) A fencing master.
Scrimmage (n.) Formerly, a skirmish; now, a general row or confused fight or struggle.
Scrimmage (n.) The struggle in the rush lines after the ball is put in play.
Scrimped (imp. & p. p.) of Scrimp
Scrimping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scrimp
Scrimp (v. t.) To make too small or short; to limit or straiten; to put on short allowance; to scant; to contract; to shorten; as, to scrimp the pattern of a coat.
Scrimp (a.) Short; scanty; curtailed.
Scrimp (n.) A pinching miser; a niggard.
Scrimping () a. & n. from Scrimp, v. t.
Scrimpingly (adv.) In a scrimping manner.
Scrimpness (n.) The state of being scrimp.
Scrimption (n.) A small portion; a pittance; a little bit.
Scrimshaw (v. t.) To ornament, as shells, ivory, etc., by engraving, and (usually) rubbing pigments into the incised lines.
Scrimshaw (n.) A shell, a whale's tooth, or the like, that is scrimshawed.
Scrine (n.) A chest, bookcase, or other place, where writings or curiosities are deposited; a shrine.
Scringed (imp. & p. p.) of Scrine
Scringing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scrine
Scrine (v. i.) To cringe.
Scrip (n.) A small bag; a wallet; a satchel.
Scrip (n.) A small writing, certificate, or schedule; a piece of paper containing a writing.
Scrip (n.) A preliminary certificate of a subscription to the capital of a bank, railroad, or other company, or for a share of other joint property, or a loan, stating the amount of the subscription and the date of the payment of the installments; as, insurance scrip, consol scrip, etc. When all the installments are paid, the scrip is exchanged for a bond share certificate.
Scrip (n.) Paper fractional currency.
Scrippage (n.) The contents of a scrip, or wallet.
Script (n.) A writing; a written document.
Script (n.) Type made in imitation of handwriting.
Script (n.) An original instrument or document.
Script (n.) Written characters; style of writing.
Scriptoria (pl. ) of Scriptorium
Scriptorium (n.) In an abbey or monastery, the room set apart for writing or copying manuscripts; in general, a room devoted to writing.
Scriptory (a.) Of or pertaining to writing; expressed in writing; used in writing; as, scriptory wills; a scriptory reed.
Scriptural (a.) Contained in the Scriptures; according to the Scriptures, or sacred oracles; biblical; as, a scriptural doctrine.
Scripturalism (n.) The quality or state of being scriptural; literal adherence to the Scriptures.
Scripturalist (n.) One who adheres literally to the Scriptures.
Scripturally (adv.) In a scriptural manner.
Scripturalness (n.) Quality of being scriptural.
Scripture (n.) Anything written; a writing; a document; an inscription.
Scripture (n.) The books of the Old and the new Testament, or of either of them; the Bible; -- used by way of eminence or distinction, and chiefly in the plural.
Scripture (n.) A passage from the Bible;; a text.
Scripturian (n.) A Scripturist.
Scripturist (n.) One who is strongly attached to, or versed in, the Scriptures, or who endeavors to regulate his life by them.
Scrit (n.) Writing; document; scroll.
Scritch (n.) A screech.
Scrivener (n.) A professional writer; one whose occupation is to draw contracts or prepare writings.
Scrivener (n.) One whose business is to place money at interest; a broker.
Scrivener (n.) A writing master.
Scrobiculae (pl. ) of Scrobicula
Scrobicula (n.) One of the smooth areas surrounding the tubercles of a sea urchin.
Scrobicular (a.) Pertaining to, or surrounding, scrobiculae; as, scrobicular tubercles.
Scrobiculate (a.) Alt. of Scrobiculated
Scrobiculated (a.) Having numerous small, shallow depressions or hollows; pitted.
Scrod (n.) Alt. of Scrode
Scrode (n.) A young codfish, especially when cut open on the back and dressed.
Scroddled ware () Mottled pottery made from scraps of differently colored clays.
Scrofula (n.) A constitutional disease, generally hereditary, especially manifested by chronic enlargement and cheesy degeneration of the lymphatic glands, particularly those of the neck, and marked by a tendency to the development of chronic intractable inflammations of the skin, mucous membrane, bones, joints, and other parts, and by a diminution in the power of resistance to disease or injury and the capacity for recovery. Scrofula is now generally held to be tuberculous in character, and may develop into general or local tuberculosis (consumption).
Scrofulide (n.) Any affection of the skin dependent on scrofula.
Scrofulous (a.) Pertaining to scrofula, or partaking of its nature; as, scrofulous tumors; a scrofulous habit of body.
Scrofulous (a.) Diseased or affected with scrofula.
Scrog (n.) A stunted shrub, bush, or branch.
Scroggy (a.) Abounding in scrog; also, twisted; stunted.
Scroll (n.) A roll of paper or parchment; a writing formed into a roll; a schedule; a list.
Scroll (n.) An ornament formed of undulations giving off spirals or sprays, usually suggestive of plant form. Roman architectural ornament is largely of some scroll pattern.
Scroll (n.) A mark or flourish added to a person's signature, intended to represent a seal, and in some States allowed as a substitute for a seal.
Scroll (n.) Same as Skew surface. See under Skew.
Scrolled (a.) Formed like a scroll; contained in a scroll; adorned with scrolls; as, scrolled work.
Scrophularia (n.) A genus of coarse herbs having small flowers in panicled cymes; figwort.
Scrophulariaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a very large natural order of gamopetalous plants (Scrophulariaceae, or Scrophularineae), usually having irregular didynamous flowers and a two-celled pod. The order includes the mullein, foxglove, snapdragon, figwort, painted cup, yellow rattle, and some exotic trees, as the Paulownia.
Scrotal (a.) Of or pertaining to the scrotum; as, scrotal hernia.
Scrotiform (a.) Purse-shaped; pouch-shaped.
Scrotocele (n.) A rupture or hernia in the scrotum; scrotal hernia.
Scrotum (n.) The bag or pouch which contains the testicles; the cod.
Scrouge (v. t.) To crowd; to squeeze.
Scrow (n.) A scroll.
Scrow (n.) A clipping from skins; a currier's cuttings.
Scroyle (n.) A mean fellow; a wretch.
Scrubbed (imp. & p. p.) of Scrub
Scrubbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scrub
Scrub (v. t.) To rub hard; to wash with rubbing; usually, to rub with a wet brush, or with something coarse or rough, for the purpose of cleaning or brightening; as, to scrub a floor, a doorplate.
Scrub (v. i.) To rub anything hard, especially with a wet brush; to scour; hence, to be diligent and penurious; as, to scrub hard for a living.
Scrub (n.) One who labors hard and lives meanly; a mean fellow.
Scrub (n.) Something small and mean.
Scrub (n.) A worn-out brush.
Scrub (n.) A thicket or jungle, often specified by the name of the prevailing plant; as, oak scrub, palmetto scrub, etc.
Scrub (n.) One of the common live stock of a region of no particular breed or not of pure breed, esp. when inferior in size, etc.
Scrub (a.) Mean; dirty; contemptible; scrubby.
Scrubbed (a.) Dwarfed or stunted; scrubby.
Scrubber (n.) One who, or that which, scrubs; esp., a brush used in scrubbing.
Scrubber (n.) A gas washer. See under Gas.
Scrubboard (n.) A baseboard; a mopboard.
Scrubby (superl.) Of the nature of scrub; small and mean; stunted in growth; as, a scrubby cur.
Scrubstone (n.) A species of calciferous sandstone.
Scruff (n.) Scurf.
Scruff (n.) The nape of the neck; the loose outside skin, as of the back of the neck.
Scrummage (n.) See Scrimmage.
Scrumptious (a.) Nice; particular; fastidious; excellent; fine.
Scrunch (v. t. & v. i.) To scranch; to crunch.
Scruple (n.) A weight of twenty grains; the third part of a dram.
Scruple (n.) Hence, a very small quantity; a particle.
Scruple (n.) Hesitation as to action from the difficulty of determining what is right or expedient; unwillingness, doubt, or hesitation proceeding from motives of conscience.
Scrupled (imp. & p. p.) of Scruple
Skrupling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scruple
Scruple (v. i.) To be reluctant or to hesitate, as regards an action, on account of considerations of conscience or expedience.
Scruple (v. t.) To regard with suspicion; to hesitate at; to question.
Scruple (v. t.) To excite scruples in; to cause to scruple.
Scrupler (n.) One who scruples.
Scrupulist (n.) A scrupler.
Scruou-lize (v. t.) To perplex with scruples; to regard with scruples.
Scrupulosity (n.) The quality or state of being scruppulous; doubt; doubtfulness respecting decision or action; caution or tenderness from the far of doing wrong or ofending; nice regard to exactness and propierty; precision.
Scrupulous (a.) Full ofscrupules; inclined to scruple; nicely doubtful; hesitating to determine or to act, from a fear of offending or of doing wrong.
Scrupulous (a.) Careful; cautious; exact; nice; as, scrupulous abstinence from labor; scrupulous performance of duties.
Scrupulous (a.) Given to making objections; captious.
Scrupulous (a.) Liable to be doubted; doubtful; nice.
Scrutable (a.) Discoverable by scrutiny, inquiry, or critical examination.
Scrutation (n.) Search; scrutiny.
Scrutator (n.) One who scrutinizes; a close examiner or inquirer.
Scrutineer (n.) A scrutinizer; specifically, an examiner of votes, as at an election.
Scrutinized (imp. & p. p.) of Scrutinize
Scrutinizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scrutinize
Scrutinize (v. t.) To examine closely; to inspect or observe with critical attention; to regard narrowly; as, to scrutinize the measures of administration; to scrutinize the conduct or motives of individuals.
Scrutinize (v. i.) To make scrutiny.
Scrutinizer (n.) One who scrutinizes.
Scrutinous (a.) Closely examining, or inquiring; careful; sctrict.
Scrutiny (n.) Close examination; minute inspection; critical observation.
Scrutiny (n.) An examination of catechumens, in the last week of Lent, who were to receive baptism on Easter Day.
Scrutiny (n.) A ticket, or little paper billet, on which a vote is written.
Scrutiny (n.) An examination by a committee of the votes given at an election, for the purpose of correcting the poll.
Scrutiny (v. t.) To scrutinize.
Scrutoire (n.) A escritoire; a writing desk.
Scruze (v. t.) To squeeze, compress, crush, or bruise.
Scry (v. t.) To descry.
Scry (v.) A flock of wild fowl.
Scry (n.) A cry or shout.
Scudded (imp. & p. p.) of Scud
Scudding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scud
Scud (v. i.) To move swiftly; especially, to move as if driven forward by something.
Scud (v. i.) To be driven swiftly, or to run, before a gale, with little or no sail spread.
Scud (v. t.) To pass over quickly.
Scud (n.) The act of scudding; a driving along; a rushing with precipitation.
Scud (n.) Loose, vapory clouds driven swiftly by the wind.
Scud (n.) A slight, sudden shower.
Scud (n.) A small flight of larks, or other birds, less than a flock.
Scud (n.) Any swimming amphipod crustacean.
Scuddle (v. i.) To run hastily; to hurry; to scuttle.
Scudi (pl. ) of Scudo
Scudo (n.) A silver coin, and money of account, used in Italy and Sicily, varying in value, in different parts, but worth about 4 shillings sterling, or about 96 cents; also, a gold coin worth about the same.
Scudo (n.) A gold coin of Rome, worth 64 shillings 11 pence sterling, or about $ 15.70.
Scuff (n.) The back part of the neck; the scruff.
Scuffed (imp. & p. p.) of Scuff
Scuffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scuff
Scuff (v. i.) To walk without lifting the feet; to proceed with a scraping or dragging movement; to shuffle.
Scuffled (imp. & p. p.) of Scuffle
Scuffling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scuffle
Scuffle (v. i.) To strive or struggle with a close grapple; to wrestle in a rough fashion.
Scuffle (v. i.) Hence, to strive or contend tumultuously; to struggle confusedly or at haphazard.
Scuffle (n.) A rough, haphazard struggle, or trial of strength; a disorderly wrestling at close quarters.
Scuffle (n.) Hence, a confused contest; a tumultuous struggle for superiority; a fight.
Scuffle (n.) A child's pinafore or bib.
Scuffle (n.) A garden hoe.
Scuffler (n.) One who scuffles.
Scuffler (n.) An agricultural implement resembling a scarifier, but usually lighter.
Scug (v. i.) To hide.
Scug (n.) A place of shelter; the declivity of a hill.
Sculk () Alt. of Sculker
Sculker () See Skulk, Skulker.
Scull (n.) The skull.
Scull (n.) A shoal of fish.
Scull (n.) A boat; a cockboat. See Sculler.
Scull (n.) One of a pair of short oars worked by one person.
Scull (n.) A single oar used at the stern in propelling a boat.
Scull (n.) The common skua gull.
Sculled (imp. & p. p.) of Scull
Sculling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scull
Scull (v. t.) To impel (a boat) with a pair of sculls, or with a single scull or oar worked over the stern obliquely from side to side.
Scull (v. i.) To impel a boat with a scull or sculls.
Sculler (n.) A boat rowed by one man with two sculls, or short oars.
Sculler (n.) One who sculls.
Sculleries (pl. ) of Scullery
Scullery (n.) A place where dishes, kettles, and culinary utensils, are cleaned and kept; also, a room attached to the kitchen, where the coarse work is done; a back kitchen.
Scullery (n.) Hence, refuse; filth; offal.
Scullion (n.) A scalion.
Scullion (n.) A servant who cleans pots and kettles, and does other menial services in the kitchen.
Scullionly (a.) Like a scullion; base.
Sculp (v. t.) To sculpture; to carve; to engrave.
Sculpin (n.) Any one of numerous species of marine cottoid fishes of the genus Cottus, or Acanthocottus, having a large head armed with sharp spines, and a broad mouth. They are generally mottled with yellow, brown, and black. Several species are found on the Atlantic coasts of Europe and America.
Sculpin (n.) A large cottoid market fish of California (Scorpaenichthys marmoratus); -- called also bighead, cabezon, scorpion, salpa.
Sculpin (n.) The dragonet, or yellow sculpin, of Europe (Callionymus lura).
Sculptile (a.) Formed by carving; graven; as, sculptile images.
Sculptor (n.) One who sculptures; one whose occupation is to carve statues, or works of sculpture.
Sculptor (n.) Hence, an artist who designs works of sculpture, his first studies and his finished model being usually in a plastic material, from which model the marble is cut, or the bronze is cast.
Sculptress (n.) A female sculptor.
Sculptural (a.) Of or pertaining to sculpture.
Sculpture (n.) The art of carving, cutting, or hewing wood, stone, metal, etc., into statues, ornaments, etc., or into figures, as of men, or other things; hence, the art of producing figures and groups, whether in plastic or hard materials.
Sculpture (n.) Carved work modeled of, or cut upon, wood, stone, metal, etc.
Sculptured (imp. & p. p.) of Sculpture
Sculpturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sculpture
Sculpture (v. t.) To form with the chisel on, in, or from, wood, stone, or metal; to carve; to engrave.
Sculpturesque (a.) After the manner of sculpture; resembling, or relating to, sculpture.
Scum (v.) The extraneous matter or impurities which rise to the surface of liquids in boiling or fermentation, or which form on the surface by other means; also, the scoria of metals in a molten state; dross.
Scum (v.) refuse; recrement; anything vile or worthless.
Scummed (imp. & p. p.) of Scum
Scumming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scum
Scum (v. t.) To take the scum from; to clear off the impure matter from the surface of; to skim.
Scum (v. t.) To sweep or range over the surface of.
Scum (v. i.) To form a scum; to become covered with scum. Also used figuratively.
Scumber (v. i.) To void excrement.
Scumber (n.) Dung.
Scumbled (imp. & p. p.) of Scumble
Scumbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scumble
Scumble (v. t.) To cover lighty, as a painting, or a drawing, with a thin wash of opaque color, or with color-crayon dust rubbed on with the stump, or to make any similar additions to the work, so as to produce a softened effect.
Scumbling (n.) A mode of obtaining a softened effect, in painting and drawing, by the application of a thin layer of opaque color to the surface of a painting, or part of the surface, which is too bright in color, or which requires harmonizing.
Scumbling (n.) In crayon drawing, the use of the stump.
Scumbling (n.) The color so laid on. Also used figuratively.
Scummer (v. i.) To scumber.
Scummer (n.) Excrement; scumber.
Scummer (n.) An instrument for taking off scum; a skimmer.
Scumming (n.) The act of taking off scum.
Scumming (n.) That which is scummed off; skimmings; scum; -- used chiefly in the plural.
Scummy (a.) Covered with scum; of the nature of scum.
Scunner (v. t.) To cause to loathe, or feel disgust at.
Scunner (v. i.) To have a feeling of loathing or disgust; hence, to have dislike, prejudice, or reluctance.
Scunner (n.) A feeling of disgust or loathing; a strong prejudice; abhorrence; as, to take a scunner against some one.
Scup (n.) A swing.
Scup (n.) A marine sparoid food fish (Stenotomus chrysops, or S. argyrops), common on the Atlantic coast of the United States. It appears bright silvery when swimming in the daytime, but shows broad blackish transverse bands at night and when dead. Called also porgee, paugy, porgy, scuppaug.
Scuppaug (n.) See 2d Scup.
Scupper (v.) An opening cut through the waterway and bulwarks of a ship, so that water falling on deck may flow overboard; -- called also scupper hole.
Scuppernong (n.) An American grape, a form of Vitis vulpina, found in the Southern Atlantic States, and often cultivated.
Scur (v. i.) To move hastily; to scour.
Scurf (n.) Thin dry scales or scabs upon the body; especially, thin scales exfoliated from the cuticle, particularly of the scalp; dandruff.
Scurf (n.) Hence, the foul remains of anything adherent.
Scurf (n.) Anything like flakes or scales adhering to a surface.
Scurf (n.) Minute membranous scales on the surface of some leaves, as in the goosefoot.
Scurff (n.) The bull trout.
Scurfiness (n.) Quality or state of being scurfy.
Scurfiness (n.) Scurf.
Scurfy (superl.) Having or producing scurf; covered with scurf; resembling scurf.
Scurrier (n.) One who scurries.
Scurrile (a.) Such as befits a buffoon or vulgar jester; grossly opprobrious or loudly jocose in language; scurrilous; as, scurrile taunts.
Scurrility (n.) The quality or state of being scurrile or scurrilous; mean, vile, or obscene jocularity.
Scurrility (n.) That which is scurrile or scurrilous; gross or obscene language; low buffoonery; vulgar abuse.
Scurrilous (a.) Using the low and indecent language of the meaner sort of people, or such as only the license of buffoons can warrant; as, a scurrilous fellow.
Scurrilous (a.) Containing low indecency or abuse; mean; foul; vile; obscenely jocular; as, scurrilous language.
Scurrit (n.) the lesser tern (Sterna minuta).
Scurry (v. i.) To hasten away or along; to move rapidly; to hurry; as, the rabbit scurried away.
Scurry (n.) Act of scurring; hurried movement.
Scurvily (adv.) In a scurvy manner.
Scurviness (n.) The quality or state of being scurvy; vileness; meanness.
Scurvy (n.) Covered or affected with scurf or scabs; scabby; scurfy; specifically, diseased with the scurvy.
Scurvy (n.) Vile; mean; low; vulgar; contemptible.
Scurvy (n.) A disease characterized by livid spots, especially about the thighs and legs, due to extravasation of blood, and by spongy gums, and bleeding from almost all the mucous membranes. It is accompanied by paleness, languor, depression, and general debility. It is occasioned by confinement, innutritious food, and hard labor, but especially by lack of fresh vegetable food, or confinement for a long time to a limited range of food, which is incapable of repairing the waste of the system. It was formerly prevalent among sailors and soldiers.
Scut (n.) The tail of a hare, or of a deer, or other animal whose tail is short, sp. when carried erect; hence, sometimes, the animal itself.
Scuta (n. pl.) See Scutum.
Scutage (n.) Shield money; commutation of service for a sum of money. See Escuage.
Scutal (a.) Of or pertaining to a shield.
Scutate (a.) Buckler-shaped; round or nearly round.
Scutate (a.) Protected or covered by bony or horny plates, or large scales.
Scutched (imp. & p. p.) of Scutch
Scutching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scutch
Scutch (v. t.) To beat or whip; to drub.
Scutch (v. t.) To separate the woody fiber from (flax, hemp, etc.) by beating; to swingle.
Scutch (v. t.) To loosen and dress the fiber of (cotton or silk) by beating; to free (fibrous substances) from dust by beating and blowing.
Scutch (n.) A wooden instrument used in scutching flax and hemp.
Scutch (n.) The woody fiber of flax; the refuse of scutched flax.
Scutcheon (n.) An escutcheon; an emblazoned shield.
Scutcheon (n.) A small plate of metal, as the shield around a keyhole. See Escutcheon, 4.
Scutcheoned (a.) Emblazoned on or as a shield.
Scutcher (n.) One who scutches.
Scutcher (n.) An implement or machine for scutching hemp, flax, or cotton; etc.; a scutch; a scutching machine.
Scutch grass () A kind of pasture grass (Cynodon Dactylon). See Bermuda grass: also Illustration in Appendix.
Scute (n.) A small shield.
Scute (n.) An old French gold coin of the value of 3s. 4d. sterling, or about 80 cents.
Scute (n.) A bony scale of a reptile or fish; a large horny scale on the leg of a bird, or on the belly of a snake.
Scutella (n. pl.) See Scutellum.
Scutelle (pl. ) of Scutella
Scutella (n.) See Scutellum, n., 2.
Scutellate (a.) Alt. of Scutellated
Scutellated (a.) Formed like a plate or salver; composed of platelike surfaces; as, the scutellated bone of a sturgeon.
Scutellated (a.) Having the tarsi covered with broad transverse scales, or scutella; -- said of certain birds.
Scutellation (n.) the entire covering, or mode of arrangement, of scales, as on the legs and feet of a bird.
Scutelliform (a.) Scutellate.
Scutelliform (a.) Having the form of a scutellum.
Scutelliplantar (a.) Having broad scutella on the front, and small scales on the posterior side, of the tarsus; -- said of certain birds.
Scutella (pl. ) of Scutellum
Scutellum (n.) A rounded apothecium having an elevated rim formed of the proper thallus, the fructification of certain lichens.
Scutellum (n.) The third of the four pieces forming the upper part of a thoracic segment of an insect. It follows the scutum, and is followed by the small postscutellum; a scutella. See Thorax.
Scutellum (n.) One of the transverse scales on the tarsi and toes of birds; a scutella.
Scutibranch (a.) Scutibranchiate.
Scutibranch (n.) One of the Scutibranchiata.
Scutibranchia (n. pl.) Same as Scutibranchiata.
Scutibranchian (n.) One of the Scutibranchiata.
Scutibranchiata (n. pl.) An order of gastropod Mollusca having a heart with two auricles and one ventricle. The shell may be either spiral or shieldlike.
Scutibranchiate (a.) Having the gills protected by a shieldlike shell; of or pertaining to the Scutibranchiata.
Scutibranchiate (n.) One of the Scutibranchiata.
Scutiferous (a.) Carrying a shield or buckler.
Scutiform (a.) Shield-shaped; scutate.
Scutiger (n.) Any species of chilopod myriapods of the genus Scutigera. They sometimes enter buildings and prey upon insects.
Scutiped (a.) Having the anterior surface of the tarsus covered with scutella, or transverse scales, in the form of incomplete bands terminating at a groove on each side; -- said of certain birds.
Scuttle (n.) A broad, shallow basket.
Scuttle (n.) A wide-mouthed vessel for holding coal: a coal hod.
Scuttle (v. i.) To run with affected precipitation; to hurry; to bustle; to scuddle.
Scuttle (n.) A quick pace; a short run.
Scuttle (n.) A small opening in an outside wall or covering, furnished with a lid.
Scuttle (n.) A small opening or hatchway in the deck of a ship, large enough to admit a man, and with a lid for covering it, also, a like hole in the side or bottom of a ship.
Scuttle (n.) An opening in the roof of a house, with a lid.
Scuttle (n.) The lid or door which covers or closes an opening in a roof, wall, or the like.
Scuttled (imp. & p. p.) of Scuttle
Scuttling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Scuttle
Scuttle (v. t.) To cut a hole or holes through the bottom, deck, or sides of (as of a ship), for any purpose.
Scuttle (v. t.) To sink by making holes through the bottom of; as, to scuttle a ship.
Scuta (pl. ) of Scutum
Scutum (n.) An oblong shield made of boards or wickerwork covered with leather, with sometimes an iron rim; -- carried chiefly by the heavy-armed infantry.
Scutum (n.) A penthouse or awning.
Scutum (n.) The second and largest of the four parts forming the upper surface of a thoracic segment of an insect. It is preceded by the prescutum and followed by the scutellum. See the Illust. under Thorax.
Scutum (n.) One of the two lower valves of the operculum of a barnacle.
Scybala (n. pl.) Hardened masses of feces.
Scye (n.) Arm scye, a cutter's term for the armhole or part of the armhole of the waist of a garnment.
Scyle (v. t.) To hide; to secrete; to conceal.
Scylla (n.) A dangerous rock on the Italian coast opposite the whirpool Charybdis on the coast of Sicily, -- both personified in classical literature as ravenous monsters. The passage between them was formerly considered perilous; hence, the saying "Between Scylla and Charybdis," signifying a great peril on either hand.
Scyllaea (n.) A genus of oceanic nudibranchiate mollusks having the small branched gills situated on the upper side of four fleshy lateral lobes, and on the median caudal crest.
Scyllarian (n.) One of a family (Scyllaridae) of macruran Crustacea, remarkable for the depressed form of the body, and the broad, flat antennae. Also used adjectively.
Scyllite (n.) A white crystalline substance of a sweetish taste, resembling inosite and metameric with dextrose. It is extracted from the kidney of the dogfish (of the genus Scylium), the shark, and the skate.
Scymetar (n.) See Scimiter.
Scyphae (pl. ) of Scypha
Scypha (n.) See Scyphus, 2 (b).
Scyphiform (a.) Cup-shaped.
Scyphistomata (pl. ) of Scyphistoma
Scyphistomae (pl. ) of Scyphistoma
Scyphistoma (n.) The young attached larva of Discophora in the stage when it resembles a hydroid, or actinian.
Scyphobranchii (n. pl.) An order of fishes including the blennioid and gobioid fishes, and other related families.
Scyphomeduse (n. pl.) Same as Acraspeda, or Discophora.
Scyphophori (n. pl.) An order of fresh-water fishes inhabiting tropical Africa. They have rudimentary electrical organs on each side of the tail.
Scyphi (pl. ) of Scyphus
Scyphus (n.) A kind of large drinking cup, -- used by Greeks and Romans, esp. by poor folk.
Scyphus (n.) The cup of a narcissus, or a similar appendage to the corolla in other flowers.
Scyphus (n.) A cup-shaped stem or podetium in lichens. Also called scypha. See Illust. of Cladonia pyxidata, under Lichen.
Scythe (n.) An instrument for mowing grass, grain, or the like, by hand, composed of a long, curving blade, with a sharp edge, made fast to a long handle, called a snath, which is bent into a form convenient for use.
Scythe (n.) A scythe-shaped blade attached to ancient war chariots.
Scythe (v. t.) To cut with a scythe; to cut off as with a scythe; to mow.
Scythed (a.) Armed scythes, as a chariot.
Scythemen (pl. ) of Scytheman
Scytheman (n.) One who uses a scythe; a mower.
Scythestone (n.) A stone for sharpening scythes; a whetstone.
Scythewhet (n.) Wilson's thrush; -- so called from its note.
Scythian (a.) Of or pertaining to Scythia (a name given to the northern part of Asia, and Europe adjoining to Asia), or its language or inhabitants.
Scythian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Scythia; specifically (Ethnol.), one of a Slavonic race which in early times occupied Eastern Europe.
Scythian (n.) The language of the Scythians.
Scytodermata (n. pl.) Same as Holothurioidea.
Sdan (v. & n.) Disdain.
'Sdeath (interj.) An exclamation expressive of impatience or anger.
Sdeign (v. t.) To disdain.
Sea (n.) One of the larger bodies of salt water, less than an ocean, found on the earth's surface; a body of salt water of second rank, generally forming part of, or connecting with, an ocean or a larger sea; as, the Mediterranean Sea; the Sea of Marmora; the North Sea; the Carribean Sea.
Sea (n.) An inland body of water, esp. if large or if salt or brackish; as, the Caspian Sea; the Sea of Aral; sometimes, a small fresh-water lake; as, the Sea of Galilee.
Sea (n.) The ocean; the whole body of the salt water which covers a large part of the globe.
Sea (n.) The swell of the ocean or other body of water in a high wind; motion of the water's surface; also, a single wave; a billow; as, there was a high sea after the storm; the vessel shipped a sea.
Sea (n.) A great brazen laver in the temple at Jerusalem; -- so called from its size.
Sea (n.) Fig.: Anything resembling the sea in vastness; as, a sea of glory.
Sea acorn () An acorn barnacle (Balanus).
Sea adder () The European fifteen-spined stickleback (Gasterosteus spinachia); -- called also bismore.
Sea adder () The European tanglefish, or pipefish (Syngnathus acus).
Sea anchor () See Drag sail, under 4th Drag.
Sea amenone () Any one of numerous species of soft-bodied Anthozoa, belonging to the order Actrinaria; an actinian.
Sea ape () The thrasher shark.
Sea ape () The sea otter.
Sea apple () The fruit of a West Indian palm (Manicaria Plukenetii), often found floating in the sea.
Sea arrow () A squid of the genus Ommastrephes. See Squid.
Sea bank () The seashore.
Sea bank () A bank or mole to defend against the sea.
Sea-bar (n.) A tern.
Sea barrow () A sea purse.
Sea bass () A large marine food fish (Serranus, / Centropristis, atrarius) which abounds on the Atlantic coast of the United States. It is dark bluish, with black bands, and more or less varied with small white spots and blotches. Called also, locally, blue bass, black sea bass, blackfish, bluefish, and black perch.
Sea bass () A California food fish (Cynoscion nobile); -- called also white sea bass, and sea salmon.
Sea bat () See Batfish (a).
Seabeach (n.) A beach lying along the sea.
Sea bean () Same as Florida bean.
Sea bear () Any fur seal. See under Fur.
Sea bear () The white bear.
Seabeard (n.) A green seaweed (Cladophora rupestris) growing in dense tufts.
Sea beast () Any large marine mammal, as a seal, walrus, or cetacean.
Sea bird () Any swimming bird frequenting the sea; a sea fowl.
Sea blite () A plant (Suaeda maritima) of the Goosefoot family, growing in salt marches.
Sea-blubber (n.) A jellyfish.
Seaboard (n.) The seashore; seacoast.
Seaboard (a.) Bordering upon, or being near, the sea; seaside; seacoast; as, a seaboard town.
Seaboard (adv.) Toward the sea.
Seaboat () A boat or vessel adapted to the open sea; hence, a vessel considered with reference to her power of resisting a storm, or maintaining herself in a heavy sea; as, a good sea boat.
Seaboat () A chitin.
Seabord (n. & a.) See Seaboard.
Sea-bordering (a.) Bordering on the sea; situated beside the sea.
Sea-born (a.) Born of the sea; produced by the sea.
Sea-born (a.) Born at sea.
Seabound (a.) Bounded by the sea.
Sea bow () See Marine rainbow, under Rainbow.
Sea boy () A boy employed on shipboard.
Sea breach () A breaking or overflow of a bank or a dike by the sea.
Sea bream () Any one of several species of sparoid fishes, especially the common European species (Pagellus centrodontus), the Spanish (P. Oweni), and the black sea bream (Cantharus lineatus); -- called also old wife.
Sea brief () Same as Sea letter.
Sea bug () A chiton.
Sea-built (a.) Built at, in, or by the sea.
Sea butterfly () A pteropod.
Sea cabbage () See Sea kale, under Kale.
Sea calf () The common seal.
Sea canary () The beluga, or white whale.
Sea captain () The captain of a vessel that sails upon the sea.
Sea card () Mariner's card, or compass.
Sea catfish () Alt. of Sea cat
Sea cat () The wolf fish.
Sea cat () Any marine siluroid fish, as Aelurichthys marinus, and Arinus felis, of the eastern coast of the United States. Many species are found on the coasts of Central and South America.
Sea chart () A chart or map on which the lines of the shore, islands, shoals, harbors, etc., are delineated.
Sea chickweed () A fleshy plant (Arenaria peploides) growing in large tufts in the sands of the northern Atlantic seacoast; -- called also sea sandwort, and sea purslane.
Sea clam () Any one of the large bivalve mollusks found on the open seacoast, especially those of the family Mactridae, as the common American species. (Mactra, / Spisula, solidissima); -- called also beach clam, and surf clam.
Sea coal () Coal brought by sea; -- a name by which mineral coal was formerly designated in the south of England, in distinction from charcoal, which was brought by land.
Seacoast (n.) The shore or border of the land adjacent to the sea or ocean. Also used adjectively.
Sea cob () The black-backed gull.
Sea cock () In a steamship, a cock or valve close to the vessel's side, for closing a pipe which communicates with the sea.
Sea cock () The black-bellied plover.
Sea cock () A gurnard, as the European red gurnard (Trigla pini).
Sea cocoa () A magnificent palm (Lodoicea Sechellarum) found only in the Seychelles Islands. The fruit is an immense two-lobed nut. It was found floating in the Indian Ocean before the tree was known, and called sea cocoanut, and double cocoanut.
Sea colander () A large blackfish seaweed (Agarum Turneri), the frond of which is punctured with many little holes.
Sea colewort () Sea cabbage.
Sea compass () The mariner's compass. See under Compass.
Sea coot () A scoter duck.
Sea corn () A yellow cylindrical mass of egg capsule of certain species of whelks (Buccinum), which resembles an ear of maize.
Sea cow () The mantee.
Sea cow () The dugong.
Sea cow () The walrus.
Sea crawfish () Alt. of Sea crayfish
Sea crayfish () Any crustacean of the genus Palinurus and allied genera, as the European spiny lobster (P. vulgaris), which is much used as an article of food. See Lobster.
Sea crow () The chough.
Sea crow () The cormorant.
Sea crow () The blackheaded pewit, and other gulls.
Sea crow () The skua.
Sea crow () The razorbill.
Sea crow () The coot.
Sea cucumber () Any large holothurian, especially one of those belonging to the genus Pentacta, or Cucumaria, as the common American and European species. (P. frondosa).
Sea dace () The European sea perch.
Sea daffodil () A European amarylidaceous plant (Pancratium maritimum).
Sea devil () Any very large ray, especially any species of the genus Manta or Cepholoptera, some of which become more than twenty feet across and weigh several tons. See also Ox ray, under Ox.
Sea devil () Any large cephalopod, as a large Octopus, or a giant squid (Architeuthis). See Devilfish.
Sea devil () The angler.
Sea dog () The dogfish.
Sea dog () The common seal.
Sea dog () An old sailor; a salt.
Sea dotterel () The turnstone.
Sea dove () The little auk, or rotche. See Illust. of Rotche.
Sea dragon () A dragonet, or sculpin.
Sea dragon () The pegasus.
Sea drake () The pewit gull.
Sea duck () Any one of numerous species of ducks which frequent the seacoasts and feed mainly on fishes and mollusks. The scoters, eiders, old squaw, and ruddy duck are examples. They may be distinguished by the lobate hind toe.
Sea eagle () Any one of several species of fish-eating eagles of the genus Haliaeetus and allied genera, as the North Pacific sea eagle. (H. pelagicus), which has white shoulders, head, rump, and tail; the European white-tailed eagle (H. albicilla); and the Indian white-tailed sea eagle, or fishing eagle (Polioaetus ichthyaetus). The bald eagle and the osprey are also sometimes classed as sea eagles.
Sea eagle () The eagle ray. See under Ray.
Sea-ear (n.) Any species of ear-shaped shells of the genus Haliotis. See Abalone.
Sea eel () The conger eel.
Sea egg () A sea urchin.
Sea elephant () A very large seal (Macrorhinus proboscideus) of the Antarctic seas, much hunted for its oil. It sometimes attains a length of thirty feet, and is remarkable for the prolongation of the nose of the adult male into an erectile elastic proboscis, about a foot in length. Another species of smaller size (M. angustirostris) occurs on the coast of Lower California, but is now nearly extinct.
Sea fan () Any gorgonian which branches in a fanlike form, especially Gorgonia flabellum of Florida and the West Indies.
Seafarer (n.) One who follows the sea as a business; a mariner; a sailor.
Seafaring (a.) Following the business of a mariner; as, a seafaring man.
Sea feather () Any gorgonian which branches in a plumelike form.
Sea fennel () Samphire.
Sea fern () Any gorgonian which branches like a fern.
Sea fight () An engagement between ships at sea; a naval battle.
Sea fir () A sertularian hydroid, especially Sertularia abietina, which branches like a miniature fir tree.
Sea flewer () A sea anemone, or any related anthozoan.
Sea foam () Foam of sea water.
Sea foam () Meerschaum; -- called also sea froth.
Sea fowl () Any bird which habitually frequents the sea, as an auk, gannet, gull, tern, or petrel; also, all such birds, collectively.
Sea fox () The thrasher shark. See Thrasher.
Sea froth () See Sea foam, 2.
Sea-gate (n.) Alt. of Sea-gait
Sea-gait (n.) A long, rolling swell of the sea.
Sea gauge () See under Gauge, n.
Sea gherkin () Alt. of Sea girkin
Sea girkin () Any small holothurian resembling in form a gherkin.
Sea ginger () A hydroid coral of the genus Millepora, especially M. alcicornis, of the West Indies and Florida. So called because it stings the tongue like ginger. See Illust. under Millepore.
Sea girdles () A kind of kelp (Laminaria digitata) with palmately cleft fronds; -- called also sea wand, seaware, and tangle.
Seagirt (a.) Surrounded by the water of the sea or ocean; as, a seagirt isle.
Sea god () A marine deity; a fabulous being supposed to live in, or have dominion over, the sea, or some particular sea or part of the sea, as Neptune.
Sea goddess () A goddess supposed to live in or reign over the sea, or some part of the sea.
Seagoing (a.) Going upon the sea; especially, sailing upon the deep sea; -- used in distinction from coasting or river, as applied to vessels.
Sea goose () A phalarope.
Sea gown () A gown or frock with short sleeves, formerly worn by mariners.
Sea grape () The gulf weed. See under Gulf.
Sea grape () A shrubby plant (Coccoloba uvifera) growing on the sandy shores of tropical America, somewhat resembling the grapevine.
Sea grape () The clusters of gelatinous egg capsules of a squid (Loligo).
Sea grass () Eelgrass.
Sea green () The green color of sea water.
Sea-green (a.) Of a beautiful bluish green color, like sea water on soundings.
Sea gudgeon () The European black goby (Gobius niger).
Sea gull () Any gull living on the seacoast.
Seah (n.) A Jewish dry measure containing one third of an an ephah.
Sea hare () Any tectibranchiate mollusk of the genus Aplysia. See Aplysia.
Sea hawk () A jager gull.
Sea heath () A low perennial plant (Frankenia laevis) resembling heath, growing along the seashore in Europe.
Sea hedgehog () A sea urchin.
Sea hen () the common guillemot; -- applied also to various other sea birds.
Sea hog () The porpoise.
Sea holly () An evergeen seashore plant (Eryngium maritimum). See Eryngium.
Sea holm () A small uninhabited island.
Sea holm () Sea holly.
Sea horse () A fabulous creature, half horse and half fish, represented in classic mythology as driven by sea dogs or ridden by the Nereids. It is also depicted in heraldry. See Hippocampus.
Sea horse () The walrus.
Sea horse () Any fish of the genus Hippocampus.
Sea hulver () Sea holly.
Sea-island (a.) Of or pertaining to certain islands along the coast of South Carolina and Georgia; as, sea-island cotton, a superior cotton of long fiber produced on those islands.
Sea jelly () A medusa, or jellyfish.
Seak (n.) Soap prepared for use in milling cloth.
Sea kale () See under Kale.
Sea king () One of the leaders among the Norsemen who passed their lives in roving the seas in search of plunder and adventures; a Norse pirate chief. See the Note under Viking.
Seal (n.) Any aquatic carnivorous mammal of the families Phocidae and Otariidae.
Seal (n.) An engraved or inscribed stamp, used for marking an impression in wax or other soft substance, to be attached to a document, or otherwise used by way of authentication or security.
Seal (n.) Wax, wafer, or other tenacious substance, set to an instrument, and impressed or stamped with a seal; as, to give a deed under hand and seal.
Seal (n.) That which seals or fastens; esp., the wax or wafer placed on a letter or other closed paper, etc., to fasten it.
Seal (n.) That which confirms, ratifies, or makes stable; that which authenticates; that which secures; assurance.
Seal (n.) An arrangement for preventing the entrance or return of gas or air into a pipe, by which the open end of the pipe dips beneath the surface of water or other liquid, or a deep bend or sag in the pipe is filled with the liquid; a draintrap.
Sealed (imp. & p. p.) of Seal
Skaling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seal
Seal (v. t.) To set or affix a seal to; hence, to authenticate; to confirm; to ratify; to establish; as, to seal a deed.
Seal (v. t.) To mark with a stamp, as an evidence of standard exactness, legal size, or merchantable quality; as, to seal weights and measures; to seal silverware.
Seal (v. t.) To fasten with a seal; to attach together with a wafer, wax, or other substance causing adhesion; as, to seal a letter.
Seal (v. t.) Hence, to shut close; to keep close; to make fast; to keep secure or secret.
Seal (v. t.) To fix, as a piece of iron in a wall, with cement, plaster, or the like.
Seal (v. t.) To close by means of a seal; as, to seal a drainpipe with water. See 2d Seal, 5.
Seal (v. t.) Among the Mormons, to confirm or set apart as a second or additional wife.
Seal (v. i.) To affix one's seal, or a seal.
Sea laces () A kind of seaweed (Chorda Filum) having blackish cordlike fronds, often many feet long.
Sea lamprey () The common lamprey.
Sea language () The peculiar language or phraseology of seamen; sailor's cant.
Sea lark () The rock pipit (Anthus obscurus).
Sea lark () Any one of several small sandpipers and plovers, as the ringed plover, the turnstone, the dunlin, and the sanderling.
Sea lavender () See Marsh rosemary, under Marsh.
Sea lawyer () The gray snapper. See under Snapper.
Seal-brown (a.) Of a rich dark brown color, like the fur of the fur seal after it is dyed.
Sea legs () Legs able to maintain their possessor upright in stormy weather at sea, that is, ability stand or walk steadily on deck when a vessel is rolling or pitching in a rough sea.
Sea lemon () Any one of several species of nudibranchiate mollusks of the genus Doris and allied genera, having a smooth, thick, convex yellow body.
Sea leopard () Any one of several species of spotted seals, especially Ogmorhinus leptonyx, and Leptonychotes Weddelli, of the Antarctic Ocean. The North Pacific sea leopard is the harbor seal.
Sealer (n.) One who seals; especially, an officer whose duty it is to seal writs or instruments, to stamp weights and measures, or the like.
Sealer (n.) A mariner or a vessel engaged in the business of capturing seals.
Sea letter () The customary certificate of national character which neutral merchant vessels are bound to carry in time of war; a passport for a vessel and cargo.
Sea lettuce () The green papery fronds of several seaweeds of the genus Ulva, sometimes used as food.
Sea level () The level of the surface of the sea; any surface on the same level with the sea.
Sealgh (n.) Alt. of Selch
Selch (n.) A seal.
Sea lily () A crinoid.
Sealing wax () A compound of the resinous materials, pigments, etc., used as a material for seals, as for letters, documents, etc.
Sea lion () Any one of several large species of seals of the family Otariidae native of the Pacific Ocean, especially the southern sea lion (Otaria jubata) of the South American coast; the northern sea lion (Eumetopias Stelleri) found from California to Japan; and the black, or California, sea lion (Zalophus Californianus), which is common on the rocks near San Francisco.
Sea loach () The three-bearded rockling. See Rockling.
Sea louse () Any one of numerous species of isopod crustaceans of Cymothoa, Livoneca, and allied genera, mostly parasites on fishes.
Seam (n.) Grease; tallow; lard.
Seam (n.) The fold or line formed by sewing together two pieces of cloth or leather.
Seam (n.) Hence, a line of junction; a joint; a suture, as on a ship, a floor, or other structure; the line of union, or joint, of two boards, planks, metal plates, etc.
Seam (n.) A thin layer or stratum; a narrow vein between two thicker strata; as, a seam of coal.
Seam (n.) A line or depression left by a cut or wound; a scar; a cicatrix.
Seamed (imp. & p. p.) of Seam
Seaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seam
Seam (v. t.) To form a seam upon or of; to join by sewing together; to unite.
Seam (v. t.) To mark with something resembling a seam; to line; to scar.
Seam (v. t.) To make the appearance of a seam in, as in knitting a stocking; hence, to knit with a certain stitch, like that in such knitting.
Seam (v. i.) To become ridgy; to crack open.
Seam (n.) A denomination of weight or measure.
Seam (n.) The quantity of eight bushels of grain.
Seam (n.) The quantity of 120 pounds of glass.
Sea-maid (n.) The mermaid.
Sea-maid (n.) A sea nymph.
Sea-mail (n.) A gull; the mew.
Seamen (pl. ) of Seaman
Seaman (n.) A merman; the male of the mermaid.
Seamen (pl. ) of Seaman
Seaman (n.) One whose occupation is to assist in the management of ships at sea; a mariner; a sailor; -- applied both to officers and common mariners, but especially to the latter. Opposed to landman, or landsman.
Seamanlike (a.) Having or showing the skill of a practical seaman.
Seamanship (n.) The skill of a good seaman; the art, or skill in the art, of working a ship.
Sea mantis () A squilla.
Sea marge () Land which borders on the sea; the seashore.
Seamark (n.) Any elevated object on land which serves as a guide to mariners; a beacon; a landmark visible from the sea, as a hill, a tree, a steeple, or the like.
Sea mat () Any bryozoan of the genus Flustra or allied genera which form frondlike corals.
Sea maw () The sea mew.
Seamed (a.) Out of condition; not in good condition; -- said of a hawk.
Sea-mell (n.) The sea mew.
Sea mew () A gull; the mew.
Sea mile () A geographical mile. See Mile.
Sea milkwort () A low, fleshy perennial herb (Glaux maritima) found along northern seashores.
Seaming (n.) The act or process of forming a seam or joint.
Seaming (n.) The cord or rope at the margin of a seine, to which the meshes of the net are attached.
Seamless (a.) Without a seam.
Sea monk () See Monk seal, under Monk.
Sea monster () Any large sea animal.
Sea moss () Any branched marine bryozoan resembling moss.
Sea mouse () A dorsibranchiate annelid, belonging to Aphrodite and allied genera, having long, slender, hairlike setae on the sides.
Sea mouse () The dunlin.
Seamster (n.) One who sews well, or whose occupation is to sew.
Seamstress (n.) A woman whose occupation is sewing; a needlewoman.
Seamstressy (n.) The business of a seamstress.
Sea mud () A rich slimy deposit in salt marshes and along the seashore, sometimes used as a manure; -- called also sea ooze.
Seamy (a.) Having a seam; containing seams, or showing them.
Sean (n.) A seine. See Seine.
Seance (n.) A session, as of some public body; especially, a meeting of spiritualists to receive spirit communication, so called.
Sea needle () See Garfish (a).
Sea nettle () A jellyfish, or medusa.
Seannachie (n.) A bard among the Highlanders of Scotland, who preserved and repeated the traditions of the tribes; also, a genealogist.
Sea onion () The officinal squill. See Squill.
Sea ooze () Same as Sea mud.
Sea orange () A large American holothurian (Lophothuria Fabricii) having a bright orange convex body covered with finely granulated scales. Its expanded tentacles are bright red.
Sea-orb (n.) A globefish.
Sea otter () An aquatic carnivore (Enhydris lutris, / marina) found in the North Pacific Ocean. Its fur is highly valued, especially by the Chinese. It is allied to the common otter, but is larger, with feet more decidedly webbed.
Sea owl () The lumpfish.
Sea pad () The puffin.
Sea partridge () The gilthead (Crenilabrus melops), a fish of the British coasts.
Sea pass () A document carried by neutral merchant vessels in time of war, to show their nationality; a sea letter or passport. See Passport.
Sea peach () A beautiful American ascidian (Cynthia, / Halocynthia, pyriformis) having the size, form, velvety surface, and color of a ripe peach.
Sea pear () A pedunculated ascidian of the genus Boltonia.
Sea-pen (n.) A pennatula.
Sea perch () The European bass (Roccus, / Labrax, lupus); -- called also sea dace.
Sea perch () The cunner.
Sea perch () The sea bass.
Sea perch () The name is applied also to other species of fishes.
Sea pheasant () The pintail duck.
Sea pie () The oyster catcher, a limicoline bird of the genus Haematopus.
Sea pie () A dish of crust or pastry and meat or fish, etc., cooked together in alternate layers, -- a common food of sailors; as, a three-decker sea pie.
Seapiece (n.) A picture representing a scene at sea; a marine picture.
Sea piet () See 1st Sea pie.
Sea pig () A porpoise or dolphin.
Sea pig () A dugong.
Sea pigeon () The common guillemot.
Sea pike () The garfish.
Sea pike () A large serranoid food fish (Centropomus undecimalis) found on both coasts of America; -- called also robalo.
Sea pike () The merluce.
Sea pincushion () A sea purse.
Sea pincushion () A pentagonal starfish.
Sea pink () See Thrift.
Sea plover () the black-bellied plover.
Sea poacher () Alt. of Sea poker
Sea poker () The lyrie.
Sea pool () A pool of salt water.
Sea poppy () The horn poppy. See under Horn.
Sea porcupine () Any fish of the genus Diodon, and allied genera, whose body is covered with spines. See Illust. under Diodon.
Sea pork () An American compound ascidian (Amoraecium stellatum) which forms large whitish masses resembling salt pork.
Seaport (n.) A port on the seashore, or one accessible for seagoing vessels. Also used adjectively; as, a seaport town.
Seapoy (n.) See Sepoy.
Sea pudding () Any large holothurian.
Sea purse () The horny egg case of a skate, and of certain sharks.
Sea purslane () See under Purslane.
Sea pye () See 1st Sea pie.
Sea pyot () See 1st Sea pie.
Sea quail () The turnstone.
Seaquake (n.) A quaking of the sea.
Sear (a.) Alt. of Sere
Sere (a.) [OE. seer, AS. sear (assumed) fr. searian to wither; akin to D. zoor dry, LG. soor, OHG. sor/n to to wither, Gr. a"y`ein to parch, to dry, Skr. /ush (for sush) to dry, to wither, Zend hush to dry. 152. Cf. Austere, Sorrel, a.] Dry; withered; no longer green; -- applied to leaves.
Seared (imp. & p. p.) of Sear
Searing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sear
Sear (a.) To wither; to dry up.
Sear (a.) To burn (the surface of) to dryness and hardness; to cauterize; to expose to a degree of heat such as changes the color or the hardness and texture of the surface; to scorch; to make callous; as, to sear the skin or flesh. Also used figuratively.
Sear (n.) The catch in a gunlock by which the hammer is held cocked or half cocked.
Sea rat () A pirate.
Sea rat () The chimaera.
Sea raven () An American cottoid fish (Hemitripterus Americanus) allied to the sculpins, found on the northeren Atlantic coasts.
Sea raven () The cormorant.
Searce (n.) A fine sieve.
Searce (v. t.) To sift; to bolt.
Searcer (n.) One who sifts or bolts.
Searcer (n.) A searce, or sieve.
Searched (imp. & p. p.) of Search
Searching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Search
Search (v. t.) To look over or through, for the purpose of finding something; to examine; to explore; as, to search the city.
Search (v. t.) To inquire after; to look for; to seek.
Search (v. t.) To examine or explore by feeling with an instrument; to probe; as, to search a wound.
Search (v. t.) To examine; to try; to put to the test.
Search (v. i.) To seek; to look for something; to make inquiry, exploration, or examination; to hunt.
Search (v. t.) The act of seeking or looking for something; quest; inquiry; pursuit for finding something; examination.
Searchable (a.) Capable of being searched.
Searchableness (n.) Quality of being searchable.
Searcher (n.) One who, or that which, searhes or examines; a seeker; an inquirer; an examiner; a trier.
Searcher (n.) Formerly, an officer in London appointed to examine the bodies of the dead, and report the cause of death.
Searcher (n.) An officer of the customs whose business it is to search ships, merchandise, luggage, etc.
Searcher (n.) An inspector of leather.
Searcher (n.) An instrument for examining the bore of a cannon, to detect cavities.
Searcher (n.) An implement for sampling butter; a butter trier.
Searcher (n.) An instrument for feeling after calculi in the bladder, etc.
Searching (a.) Exploring thoroughly; scrutinizing; penetrating; trying; as, a searching discourse; a searching eye.
Searchless (a.) Impossible to be searched; inscrutable; impenetrable.
Searcloth (n.) Cerecloth.
Searcloth (v. t.) To cover, as a sore, with cerecloth.
Seared (a.) Scorched; cauterized; hence, figuratively, insensible; not susceptible to moral influences.
Searedness (n.) The state of being seared or callous; insensibility.
Sea reed () The sea-sand reed. See under Reed.
Sea risk () Risk of injury, destruction, or loss by the sea, or while at sea.
Sea robber () A pirate; a sea rover.
Sea robin () See under Robin, and Illustration in Appendix.
Sea rocket () See under Rocket.
Sea room () Room or space at sea for a vessel to maneuver, drive, or scud, without peril of running ashore or aground.
Sea rover () One that cruises or roves the sea for plunder; a sea robber; a pirate; also, a piratical vessel.
Sea-roving (a.) Cruising at random on the ocean.
Sea salmon () A young pollock.
Sea salmon () The spotted squeteague.
Sea salmon () See Sea bass (b).
Sea salt () Common salt, obtained from sea water by evaporation.
Sea sandpiper () The purple sandpiper.
Sea sandwort () See Sea chickweed.
Sea saurian (n.) Any marine saurian; esp. (Paleon.) the large extinct species of Mosasaurus, Icthyosaurus, Plesiosaurus, and related genera.
Seascape (n.) A picture representing a scene at sea.
Sea scorpion () A European sculpin (Cottus scorpius) having the head armed with short spines.
Sea scorpion () The scorpene.
Sea scurf () Any bryozoan which forms rounded or irregular patches of coral on stones, seaweeds, etc.
Sea serpent () Any marine snake. See Sea snake.
Sea serpent () A large marine animal of unknown nature, often reported to have been seen at sea, but never yet captured.
Seashell (n.) The shell of any marine mollusk.
Seashore (n.) The coast of the sea; the land that lies adjacent to the sea or ocean.
Seashore (n.) All the ground between the ordinary highwater and low-water marks.
Seasick (a.) Affected with seasickness.
Seasickness (n.) The peculiar sickness, characterized by nausea and prostration, which is caused by the pitching or rolling of a vessel.
Seaside (n.) The land bordering on, or adjacent to, the sea; the seashore. Also used adjectively.
Sea slater () Any isopod crustacean of the genus Ligia.
Sea slug () A holothurian.
Sea slug () A nudibranch mollusk.
Sea snail () A small fish of the genus Liparis, having a ventral sucker. It lives among stones and seaweeds.
Sea snail () Any small creeping marine gastropod, as the species of Littorina, Natica, etc.
Sea snake () Any one of many species of venomous aquatic snakes of the family Hydrophidae, having a flattened tail and living entirely in the sea, especially in the warmer parts of the Indian and Pacific Oceans. They feed upon fishes, and are mostly of moderate size, but some species become eight or ten feet long and four inches broad.
Sea snipe () A sandpiper, as the knot and dunlin.
Sea snipe () The bellows fish.
Season (n.) One of the divisions of the year, marked by alternations in the length of day and night, or by distinct conditions of temperature, moisture, etc., caused mainly by the relative position of the earth with respect to the sun. In the north temperate zone, four seasons, namely, spring, summer, autumn, and winter, are generally recognized. Some parts of the world have three seasons, -- the dry, the rainy, and the cold; other parts have but two, -- the dry and the rainy.
Season (n.) Hence, a period of time, especially as regards its fitness for anything contemplated or done; a suitable or convenient time; proper conjuncture; as, the season for planting; the season for rest.
Season (n.) A period of time not very long; a while; a time.
Season (n.) That which gives relish; seasoning.
Seasoned (imp. & p. p.) of Season
Seasoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Season
Season (v. t.) To render suitable or appropriate; to prepare; to fit.
Season (v. t.) To fit for any use by time or habit; to habituate; to accustom; to inure; to ripen; to mature; as, to season one to a climate.
Season (v. t.) Hence, to prepare by drying or hardening, or removal of natural juices; as, to season timber.
Season (v. t.) To fit for taste; to render palatable; to give zest or relish to; to spice; as, to season food.
Season (v. t.) Hence, to fit for enjoyment; to render agrecable.
Season (v. t.) To qualify by admixture; to moderate; to temper.
Season (v. t.) To imbue; to tinge or taint.
Season (v. t.) To copulate with; to impregnate.
Season (v. i.) To become mature; to grow fit for use; to become adapted to a climate.
Season (v. i.) To become dry and hard, by the escape of the natural juices, or by being penetrated with other substance; as, timber seasons in the sun.
Season (v. i.) To give token; to savor.
Seasonable (a.) Occurring in good time, in due season, or in proper time for the purpose; suitable to the season; opportune; timely; as, a seasonable supply of rain.
Seasonage (n.) A seasoning.
Seasonal (a.) Of or pertaining to the seasons.
Seasoner (n.) One who, or that which, seasons, or gives a relish; a seasoning.
Seasoning (n.) The act or process by which anything is seasoned.
Seasoning (n.) That which is added to any species of food, to give it a higher relish, as salt, spices, etc.; a condiment.
Seasoning (n.) Hence, something added to enhance enjoyment or relieve dullness; as, wit is the seasoning of conversation.
Seasonless (a.) Without succession of the seasons.
Sea spider () Any maioid crab; a spider crab. See Maioid, and Spider crab, under Spider.
Sea spider () Any pycnogonid.
Sea squirt () An ascidian. See Illust. under Tunicata.
Sea star () A starfish, or brittle star.
Sea surgeon () A surgeon fish.
Sea swallow () The common tern.
Sea swallow () The storm petrel.
Sea swallow () The gannet.
Sea swallow () See Cornish chough, under Chough.
Seat (n.) The place or thing upon which one sits; hence; anything made to be sat in or upon, as a chair, bench, stool, saddle, or the like.
Seat (n.) The place occupied by anything, or where any person or thing is situated, resides, or abides; a site; an abode, a station; a post; a situation.
Seat (n.) That part of a thing on which a person sits; as, the seat of a chair or saddle; the seat of a pair of pantaloons.
Seat (n.) A sitting; a right to sit; regular or appropriate place of sitting; as, a seat in a church; a seat for the season in the opera house.
Seat (n.) Posture, or way of sitting, on horseback.
Seat (n.) A part or surface on which another part or surface rests; as, a valve seat.
Seated (imp. & p. p.) of Seat
Seating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seat
Seat (v. t.) To place on a seat; to cause to sit down; as, to seat one's self.
Seat (v. t.) To cause to occupy a post, site, situation, or the like; to station; to establish; to fix; to settle.
Seat (v. t.) To assign a seat to, or the seats of; to give a sitting to; as, to seat a church, or persons in a church.
Seat (v. t.) To fix; to set firm.
Seat (v. t.) To settle; to plant with inhabitants; as to seat a country.
Seat (v. t.) To put a seat or bottom in; as, to seat a chair.
Seat (v. i.) To rest; to lie down.
Sea tang () A kind of seaweed; tang; tangle.
Sea term () A term used specifically by seamen; a nautical word or phrase.
Sea thief () A pirate.
Sea thongs () A kind of blackish seaweed (Himanthalia lorea) found on the northern coasts of the Atlantic. It has a thonglike forking process rising from a top-shaped base.
Seating (n.) The act of providong with a seat or seats; as, the seating of an audience.
Seating (n.) The act of making seats; also, the material for making seats; as, cane seating.
Sea titling () The rock pipit.
Seatless (a.) Having no seat.
Sea toad () A sculpin.
Sea toad () A toadfish.
Sea toad () The angler.
Sea trout () Any one of several species of true trouts which descend rivers and enter the sea after spawning, as the European bull trout and salmon trout, and the eastern American spotted trout.
Sea trout () The common squeteague, and the spotted squeteague.
Sea trout () A California fish of the family Chiridae, especially Hexagrammus decagrammus; -- called also spotted rock trout. See Rock trout, under Rock.
Sea trout () A California sciaenoid fish (Cynoscion nobilis); -- called also white sea bass.
Sea trumpet () A great blackish seaweed of the Southern Ocean, having a hollow and expanding stem and a pinnate frond, sometimes twenty feet long.
Sea trumpet () Any large marine univalve shell of the genus Triton. See Triton.
Sea turn () A breeze, gale, or mist from the sea.
Sea turtle () Any one of several very large species of chelonians having the feet converted into paddles, as the green turtle, hawkbill, loggerhead, and leatherback. They inhabit all warm seas.
Sea turtle () The sea pigeon, or guillemot.
Sea unicorn () The narwhal.
Sea urchin () Any one of numerous species of echinoderms of the order Echinoidea.
Seave (n.) A rush.
Seavy (a.) Overgrown with rushes.
Sea wall () A wall, or embankment, to resist encroachments of the sea.
Sea-walled (a.) Surrounded, bounded, or protected by the sea, as if by a wall.
Seawan (n.) Alt. of Seawant
Seawant (n.) The name used by the Algonquin Indians for the shell beads which passed among the Indians as money.
Seawand () See Sea girdles.
Seaward (a.) Directed or situated toward the sea.
Seaward (adv.) Toward the sea.
Seaware (n.) Seaweed; esp., coarse seaweed. See Ware, and Sea girdles.
Seaweed (n.) Popularly, any plant or plants growing in the sea.
Seaweed (n.) Any marine plant of the class Algae, as kelp, dulse, Fucus, Ulva, etc.
Sea whip () A gorgonian having a simple stem.
Sea widgeon () The scaup duck.
Sea widgeon () The pintail duck.
Seawives (pl. ) of Seawife
Seawife (n.) A European wrasse (Labrus vetula).
Sea willow () A gorgonian coral with long flexible branches.
Sea wing () A wing shell (Avicula).
Sea withwind () A kind of bindweed (Convolvulus Soldanella) growing on the seacoast of Europe.
Sea wolf () The wolf fish.
Sea wolf () The European sea perch.
Sea wolf () The sea elephant.
Sea wolf () A sea lion.
Sea woodcock () The bar-tailed godwit.
Sea wood louse () A sea slater.
Sea wormwood () A European species of wormwood (Artemisia maritima) growing by the sea.
Seaworthiness (n.) The state or quality of being seaworthy, or able to resist the ordinary violence of wind and weather.
Seaworthy (a.) Fit for a voyage; worthy of being trusted to transport a cargo with safety; as, a seaworthy ship.
Sea wrack () See Wrack.
Sebaceous (a.) Pertaining to, or secreting, fat; composed of fat; having the appearance of fat; as, the sebaceous secretions of some plants, or the sebaceous humor of animals.
Sebacic (a.) Of or pertaining to fat; derived from, or resembling, fat; specifically, designating an acid (formerly called also sebic, and pyroleic, acid), obtained by the distillation or saponification of certain oils (as castor oil) as a white crystalline substance.
Sebat (n.) The eleventh month of the ancient Hebrew year, approximately corresponding with February.
Sebate (n.) A salt of sebacic acid.
Sebesten (n.) The mucilaginous drupaceous fruit of two East Indian trees (Cordia Myxa, and C. latifolia), sometimes used medicinally in pectoral diseases.
Sebic (a.) See Sebacic.
Sebiferous (a.) Producing vegetable tallow.
Sebiferous (a.) Producing fat; sebaceous; as, the sebiferous, or sebaceous, glands.
Sebiparous (a.) Same as Sebiferous.
Seborrhea (n.) A morbidly increased discharge of sebaceous matter upon the skin; stearrhea.
Secale (n.) A genus of cereal grasses including rye.
Secancy (n.) A cutting; an intersection; as, the point of secancy of one line by another.
Secant (a.) Cutting; divivding into two parts; as, a secant line.
Secant (a.) A line that cuts another; especially, a straight line cutting a curve in two or more points.
Secant (a.) A right line drawn from the center of a circle through one end of a circular arc, and terminated by a tangent drawn from the other end; the number expressing the ratio line of this line to the radius of the circle. See Trigonometrical function, under Function.
Secco (a.) Dry.
Seceded (imp. & p. p.) of Secede
Seceding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Secede
Secede (v. i.) To withdraw from fellowship, communion, or association; to separate one's self by a solemn act; to draw off; to retire; especially, to withdraw from a political or religious body.
Seceder (n.) One who secedes.
Seceder (n.) One of a numerous body of Presbyterians in Scotland who seceded from the communion of the Established Church, about the year 1733, and formed the Secession Church, so called.
Secerned (imp. & p. p.) of Secern
Secerning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Secern
Secern (v. t.) To separate; to distinguish.
Secern (v. t.) To secrete; as, mucus secerned in the nose.
Secernent (a.) Secreting; secretory.
Secernent (n.) That which promotes secretion.
Secernent (n.) A vessel in, or by means of, which the process of secretion takes place; a secreting vessel.
Secernment (n.) The act or process of secreting.
Secess (n.) Retirement; retreat; secession.
Secession (n.) The act of seceding; separation from fellowship or association with others, as in a religious or political organization; withdrawal.
Secession (n.) The withdrawal of a State from the national Union.
Secessionism (n.) The doctrine or policy of secession; the tenets of secession; the tenets of secessionists.
Secessionist (n.) One who upholds secession.
Secessionist (n.) One who holds to the belief that a State has the right to separate from the Union at its will.
Seche (v. t. & i.) To seek.
Sechium (n.) The edible fruit of a West Indian plant (Sechium edule) of the Gourd family. It is soft, pear-shaped, and about four inches long, and contains a single large seed. The root of the plant resembles a yam, and is used for food.
Seck (a.) Barren; unprofitable. See Rent seck, under Rent.
Seckel (n.) A small reddish brown sweet and juicy pear. It originated on a farm near Philadelphia, afterwards owned by a Mr. Seckel.
Secle (n.) A century.
Secluded (imp. & p. p.) of Seclude
Secluding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seclude
Seclude (v. t.) To shut up apart from others; to withdraw into, or place in, solitude; to separate from society or intercourse with others.
Seclude (v. t.) To shut or keep out; to exclude.
Seclusion (n.) The act of secluding, or the state of being secluded; separation from society or connection; a withdrawing; privacy; as, to live in seclusion.
Seclusive (a.) Tending to seclude; keeping in seclusion; secluding; sequestering.
Second (a.) Immediately following the first; next to the first in order of place or time; hence, occuring again; another; other.
Second (a.) Next to the first in value, power, excellence, dignity, or rank; secondary; subordinate; inferior.
Second (a.) Being of the same kind as another that has preceded; another, like a protype; as, a second Cato; a second Troy; a second deluge.
Second (n.) One who, or that which, follows, or comes after; one next and inferior in place, time, rank, importance, excellence, or power.
Second (n.) One who follows or attends another for his support and aid; a backer; an assistant; specifically, one who acts as another's aid in a duel.
Second (n.) Aid; assistance; help.
Second (n.) An article of merchandise of a grade inferior to the best; esp., a coarse or inferior kind of flour.
Second (a.) The sixtieth part of a minute of time or of a minute of space, that is, the second regular subdivision of the degree; as, sound moves about 1,140 English feet in a second; five minutes and ten seconds north of this place.
Second (a.) In the duodecimal system of mensuration, the twelfth part of an inch or prime; a line. See Inch, and Prime, n., 8.
Second (n.) The interval between any tone and the tone which is represented on the degree of the staff next above it.
Second (n.) The second part in a concerted piece; -- often popularly applied to the alto.
Seconded (imp. & p. p.) of Second
Seconding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Second
Second (a.) To follow in the next place; to succeed; to alternate.
Second (a.) To follow or attend for the purpose of assisting; to support; to back; to act as the second of; to assist; to forward; to encourage.
Second (a.) Specifically, to support, as a motion or proposal, by adding one's voice to that of the mover or proposer.
Secondarily (adv.) In a secondary manner or degree.
Secondarily (adv.) Secondly; in the second place.
Secondariness (n.) The state of being secondary.
Secondary (a.) Suceeding next in order to the first; of second place, origin, rank, rank, etc.; not primary; subordinate; not of the first order or rate.
Secondary (a.) Acting by deputation or delegated authority; as, the work of secondary hands.
Secondary (a.) Possessing some quality, or having been subject to some operation (as substitution), in the second degree; as, a secondary salt, a secondary amine, etc. Cf. primary.
Secondary (a.) Subsequent in origin; -- said of minerals produced by alteertion or deposition subsequent to the formation of the original rocks mass; also of characters of minerals (as secondary cleavage, etc.) developed by pressure or other causes.
Secondary (a.) Pertaining to the second joint of the wing of a bird.
Secondary (a.) Dependent or consequent upon another disease; as, Bright's disease is often secondary to scarlet fever. (b) Occuring in the second stage of a disease; as, the secondary symptoms of syphilis.
Secondaries (pl. ) of Secondary
Secondary (n.) One who occupies a subordinate, inferior, or auxiliary place; a delegate deputy; one who is second or next to the chief officer; as, the secondary, or undersheriff of the city of London.
Secondary (n.) A secondary circle.
Secondary (n.) A satellite.
Secondary (n.) A secondary quill.
Second-class (a.) Of the rank or degree below the best highest; inferior; second-rate; as, a second-class house; a second-class passage.
Seconder (n.) One who seconds or supports what another attempts, affirms, moves, or proposes; as, the seconder of an enterprise or of a motion.
Secondhand (a.) Not original or primary; received from another.
Secondhand (a.) Not new; already or previously or used by another; as, a secondhand book, garment.
Secondly (adv.) In the second place.
Secondo (n.) The second part in a concerted piece.
Second-rate (a.) Of the second size, rank, quality, or value; as, a second-rate ship; second-rate cloth; a second-rate champion.
Second-sight (n.) The power of discerning what is not visible to the physical eye, or of foreseeing future events, esp. such as are of a disastrous kind; the capacity of a seer; prophetic vision.
Second-sighted (a.) Having the power of second-sight.
Secre (a.) Secret; secretive; faithful to a secret.
Secre (n.) A secret.
Secrecies (pl. ) of Secrecy
Secrecy (n.) The state or quality of being hidden; as, his movements were detected in spite of their secrecy.
Secrecy (n.) That which is concealed; a secret.
Secrecy (n.) Seclusion; privacy; retirement.
Secrecy (n.) The quality of being secretive; fidelity to a secret; forbearance of disclosure or discovery.
Secrely (adv.) Secretly.
Secreness (n.) Secrecy; privacy.
Secret (a.) Hidden; concealed; as, secret treasure; secret plans; a secret vow.
Secret (a.) Withdraw from general intercourse or notice; in retirement or secrecy; secluded.
Secret (a.) Faithful to a secret; not inclined to divulge or betray confidence; secretive.
Secret (a.) Separate; distinct.
Secret (a.) Something studiously concealed; a thing kept from general knowledge; what is not revealed, or not to be revealed.
Secret (a.) A thing not discovered; what is unknown or unexplained; a mystery.
Secret (a.) The parts which modesty and propriety require to be concealed; the genital organs.
Secret (v. t.) To keep secret.
Secretage (n.) A process in which mercury, or some of its salts, is employed to impart the property of felting to certain kinds of furs.
Secretarial (a.) Of or pertaining to a secretary; befitting a secretary.
Secretariat (n.) Alt. of Secretariate
Secretariate (n.) The office of a secretary; the place where a secretary transacts business, keeps records, etc.
Secretaries (pl. ) of Secretary
Secretary (n.) One who keeps, or is intrusted with, secrets.
Secretary (n.) A person employed to write orders, letters, dispatches, public or private papers, records, and the like; an official scribe, amanuensis, or writer; one who attends to correspondence, and transacts other business, for an association, a public body, or an individual.
Secretary (n.) An officer of state whose business is to superintend and manage the affairs of a particular department of government, and who is usually a member of the cabinet or advisory council of the chief executive; as, the secretary of state, who conducts the correspondence and attends to the relations of a government with foreign courts; the secretary of the treasury, who manages the department of finance; the secretary of war, etc.
Secretary (n.) A piece of furniture, with conveniences for writing and for the arrangement of papers; an escritoire.
Secretary (n.) The secretary bird.
Secretaryship (n.) The office, or the term of office, of a secretary.
Secreted (imp. & p. p.) of Secrete
Secreting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Secrete
Secrete (v. t.) To deposit in a place of hiding; to hide; to conceal; as, to secrete stolen goods; to secrete one's self.
Secrete (v. t.) To separate from the blood and elaborate by the process of secretion; to elaborate and emit as a secretion. See Secretion.
Secretion (n.) The act of secreting or concealing; as, the secretion of dutiable goods.
Secretion (n.) The act of secreting; the process by which material is separated from the blood through the agency of the cells of the various glands and elaborated by the cells into new substances so as to form the various secretions, as the saliva, bile, and other digestive fluids. The process varies in the different glands, and hence are formed the various secretions.
Secretion (n.) Any substance or fluid secreted, or elaborated and emitted, as the gastric juice.
Secretist (n.) A dealer in secrets.
Secretitious (a.) Parted by animal secretion; as, secretitious humors.
Secretive (a.) Tending to secrete, or to keep secret or private; as, a secretive disposition.
Secretiveness (n.) The quality of being secretive; disposition or tendency to conceal.
Secretiveness (n.) The faculty or propensity which impels to reserve, secrecy, or concealment.
Secretly (adv.) In a secret manner.
Secretness (n.) The state or quality of being secret, hid, or concealed.
Secretness (n.) Secretiveness; concealment.
Secrete-metory (a.) Causing secretion; -- said of nerves which go to glands and influence secretion.
Secretory (a.) Secreting; performing, or connected with, the office secretion; secernent; as, secretory vessels, nerves.
Secretory (n.) A secretory vessel; a secernent.
Sect (n.) A cutting; a scion.
Sect (n.) Those following a particular leader or authority, or attached to a certain opinion; a company or set having a common belief or allegiance distinct from others; in religion, the believers in a particular creed, or upholders of a particular practice; especially, in modern times, a party dissenting from an established church; a denomination; in philosophy, the disciples of a particular master; a school; in society and the state, an order, rank, class, or party.
Sectant (n.) One of the portions of space bounded by the three coordinate planes. Specif. (Crystallog.), one of the parts of a crystal into which it is divided by the axial planes.
Sectarian (n.) Pertaining to a sect, or to sects; peculiar to a sect; bigotedly attached to the tenets and interests of a denomination; as, sectarian principles or prejudices.
Sectarian (n.) One of a sect; a member or adherent of a special school, denomination, or religious or philosophical party; one of a party in religion which has separated itself from established church, or which holds tenets different from those of the prevailing denomination in a state.
Sectarianism (n.) The quality or character of a sectarian; devotion to the interests of a party; excess of partisan or denominational zeal; adherence to a separate church organization.
Sectarianize (v. t.) To imbue with sectarian feelings; to subject to the control of a sect.
Sectarism (n.) Sectarianism.
Sectarist (n.) A sectary.
Sectaries (pl. ) of Sectary
Sectary (n.) A sectarian; a member or adherent of a sect; a follower or disciple of some particular teacher in philosophy or religion; one who separates from an established church; a dissenter.
Sectator (n.) A follower; a disciple; an adherent to a sect.
Sectile (a.) Capable of being cut; specifically (Min.), capable of being severed by the knife with a smooth cut; -- said of minerals.
Sectility (n.) The state or quality of being sectile.
Section (n.) The act of cutting, or separation by cutting; as, the section of bodies.
Section (n.) A part separated from something; a division; a portion; a slice.
Section (n.) A distinct part or portion of a book or writing; a subdivision of a chapter; the division of a law or other writing; a paragraph; an article; hence, the character /, often used to denote such a division.
Section (n.) A distinct part of a country or people, community, class, or the like; a part of a territory separated by geographical lines, or of a people considered as distinct.
Section (n.) One of the portions, of one square mile each, into which the public lands of the United States are divided; one thirty-sixth part of a township. These sections are subdivided into quarter sections for sale under the homestead and preemption laws.
Section (n.) The figure made up of all the points common to a superficies and a solid which meet, or to two superficies which meet, or to two lines which meet. In the first case the section is a superficies, in the second a line, and in the third a point.
Section (n.) A division of a genus; a group of species separated by some distinction from others of the same genus; -- often indicated by the sign /.
Section (n.) A part of a musical period, composed of one or more phrases. See Phrase.
Section (n.) The description or representation of anything as it would appear if cut through by any intersecting plane; depiction of what is beyond a plane passing through, or supposed to pass through, an object, as a building, a machine, a succession of strata; profile.
Sectional (a.) Of or pertaining to a sections or distinct part of larger body or territory; local.
Sectional (a.) Consisting of sections, or capable of being divided into sections; as, a sectional steam boiler.
Sectionalism (n.) A disproportionate regard for the interests peculiar to a section of the country; local patriotism, as distinguished from national.
Sectionality (n.) The state or quality of being sectional; sectionalism.
Sectionalize (v. t.) To divide according to gepgraphical sections or local interests.
Sectionally (adv.) In a sectional manner.
Sectionize (v. t.) To form into sections.
Sectism (n.) Devotion to a sect.
Sectist (n.) One devoted to a sect; a soetary.
Sectiuncle (n.) A little or petty sect.
Sector (n.) A part of a circle comprehended between two radii and the included arc.
Sector (n.) A mathematical instrument, consisting of two rulers connected at one end by a joint, each arm marked with several scales, as of equal parts, chords, sines, tangents, etc., one scale of each kind on each arm, and all on lines radiating from the common center of motion. The sector is used for plotting, etc., to any scale.
Sector (n.) An astronomical instrument, the limb of which embraces a small portion only of a circle, used for measuring differences of declination too great for the compass of a micrometer. When it is used for measuring zenith distances of stars, it is called a zenith sector.
Sectoral (a.) Of or pertaining to a sector; as, a sectoral circle.
Sectorial (a.) Adapted for cutting.
Sectorial (n.) A sectorial, or carnassial, tooth.
Secular (a.) Coming or observed once in an age or a century.
Secular (a.) Pertaining to an age, or the progress of ages, or to a long period of time; accomplished in a long progress of time; as, secular inequality; the secular refrigeration of the globe.
Secular (a.) Of or pertaining to this present world, or to things not spiritual or holy; relating to temporal as distinguished from eternal interests; not immediately or primarily respecting the soul, but the body; worldly.
Secular (a.) Not regular; not bound by monastic vows or rules; not confined to a monastery, or subject to the rules of a religious community; as, a secular priest.
Secular (a.) Belonging to the laity; lay; not clerical.
Secular (n.) A secular ecclesiastic, or one not bound by monastic rules.
Secular (n.) A church official whose functions are confined to the vocal department of the choir.
Secular (n.) A layman, as distinguished from a clergyman.
Secularism (n.) The state or quality of being secular; a secular spirit; secularity.
Secularism (n.) The tenets or principles of the secularists.
Secularist (n.) One who theoretically rejects every form of religious faith, and every kind of religious worship, and accepts only the facts and influences which are derived from the present life; also, one who believes that education and other matters of civil policy should be managed without the introduction of a religious element.
Secularity (n.) Supreme attention to the things of the present life; worldliness.
Secularization (n.) The act of rendering secular, or the state of being rendered secular; conversion from regular or monastic to secular; conversion from religious to lay or secular possession and uses; as, the secularization of church property.
Secularized (imp. & p. p.) of Secularize
Secularizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Secularize
Secularize (v. t.) To convert from regular or monastic into secular; as, to secularize a priest or a monk.
Secularize (v. t.) To convert from spiritual or common use; as, to secularize a church, or church property.
Secularize (v. t.) To make worldly or unspiritual.
Secularly (adv.) In a secular or worldly manner.
Secularness (n.) The quality or state of being secular; worldliness; worldly-minded-ness.
Secund (a.) Arranged on one side only, as flowers or leaves on a stalk.
Secundate (v. t.) To make prosperous.
Secundation (n.) Prosperity.
Secundine (n.) The second coat, or integument, of an ovule, lying within the primine.
Secundine (n.) The afterbirth, or placenta and membranes; -- generally used in the plural.
Secundo-geniture (n.) A right of inheritance belonging to a second son; a property or possession so inherited.
Securable (a.) That may be secured.
Secure (a.) Free from fear, care, or anxiety; easy in mind; not feeling suspicion or distrust; confident.
Secure (a.) Overconfident; incautious; careless; -- in a bad sense.
Secure (a.) Confident in opinion; not entertaining, or not having reason to entertain, doubt; certain; sure; -- commonly with of; as, secure of a welcome.
Secure (a.) Net exposed to danger; safe; -- applied to persons and things, and followed by against or from.
Secured (imp. & p. p.) of Secure
Securing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Secure
Secure (v. t.) To make safe; to relieve from apprehensions of, or exposure to, danger; to guard; to protect.
Secure (v. t.) To put beyond hazard of losing or of not receiving; to make certain; to assure; to insure; -- frequently with against or from, rarely with of; as, to secure a creditor against loss; to secure a debt by a mortgage.
Secure (v. t.) To make fast; to close or confine effectually; to render incapable of getting loose or escaping; as, to secure a prisoner; to secure a door, or the hatches of a ship.
Secure (v. t.) To get possession of; to make one's self secure of; to acquire certainly; as, to secure an estate.
Securely (adv.) In a secure manner; without fear or apprehension; without danger; safely.
Securement (n.) The act of securing; protection.
Secureness (n.) The condition or quality of being secure; exemption from fear; want of vigilance; security.
Securer (n.) One who, or that which, secures.
Securifera (n. pl.) The Serrifera.
Securiform (a.) Having the form of an ax hatchet.
Securipalp (n.) One of a family of beetles having the maxillary palpi terminating in a hatchet-shaped joint.
Securities (pl. ) of Security
Security (n.) The condition or quality of being secure; secureness.
Security (n.) Freedom from apprehension, anxiety, or care; confidence of power of safety; hence, assurance; certainty.
Security (n.) Hence, carelessness; negligence; heedlessness.
Security (n.) Freedom from risk; safety.
Security (n.) That which secures or makes safe; protection; guard; defense.
Security (n.) Something given, deposited, or pledged, to make certain the fulfillment of an obligation, the performance of a contract, the payment of a debt, or the like; surety; pledge.
Security (n.) One who becomes surety for another, or engages himself for the performance of another's obligation.
Security (n.) An evidence of debt or of property, as a bond, a certificate of stock, etc.; as, government securities.
Sedan (n.) A portable chair or covered vehicle for carrying a single person, -- usually borne on poles by two men. Called also sedan chair.
Sedate (a.) Undisturbed by passion or caprice; calm; tranquil; serene; not passionate or giddy; composed; staid; as, a sedate soul, mind, or temper.
Sedation (n.) The act of calming, or the state of being calm.
Sedative (a.) Tending to calm, moderate, or tranquilize
Sedative (a.) allaying irritability and irritation; assuaging pain.
Sedative (n.) A remedy which allays irritability and irritation, and irritative activity or pain.
Sedent (a.) Sitting; inactive; quiet.
Sedentarily (adv.) In a sedentary manner.
Sedentariness (n.) Quality of being sedentary.
Sedentary (a.) Accustomed to sit much or long; as, a sedentary man.
Sedentary (a.) Characterized by, or requiring, much sitting; as, a sedentary employment; a sedentary life.
Sedentary (a.) Inactive; motionless; sluggish; hence, calm; tranquil.
Sedentary (a.) Caused by long sitting.
Sedentary (a.) Remaining in one place, especially when firmly attached to some object; as, the oyster is a sedentary mollusk; the barnacles are sedentary crustaceans.
Sederunt (n.) A sitting, as of a court or other body.
Sedge (n.) Any plant of the genus Carex, perennial, endogenous herbs, often growing in dense tufts in marshy places. They have triangular jointless stems, a spiked inflorescence, and long grasslike leaves which are usually rough on the margins and midrib. There are several hundred species.
Sedge (n.) A flock of herons.
Sedged (a.) Made or composed of sedge.
Sedgy (a.) Overgrown with sedge.
Sedilia (n. pl.) Seats in the chancel of a church near the altar for the officiating clergy during intervals of service.
Sediment (n.) The matter which subsides to the bottom, frrom water or any other liquid; settlings; lees; dregs.
Sediment (n.) The material of which sedimentary rocks are formed.
Sedimental (a.) Sedimentary.
Sedimentary (a.) Of or pertaining to sediment; formed by sediment; containing matter that has subsided.
Sedimentation (n.) The act of depositing a sediment; specifically (Geol.), the deposition of the material of which sedimentary rocks are formed.
Sedition (n.) The raising of commotion in a state, not amounting to insurrection; conduct tending to treason, but without an overt act; excitement of discontent against the government, or of resistance to lawful authority.
Sedition (n.) Dissension; division; schism.
Seditionary (n.) An inciter or promoter of sedition.
Seditious (a.) Of or pertaining to sedition; partaking of the nature of, or tending to excite, sedition; as, seditious behavior; seditious strife; seditious words.
Seditious (a.) Disposed to arouse, or take part in, violent opposition to lawful authority; turbulent; factious; guilty of sedition; as, seditious citizens.
Sedlitz (a.) Same as Seidlitz.
Seduced (imp. & p. p.) of Seduce
Seducing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seduce
Seduce (v. t.) To draw aside from the path of rectitude and duty in any manner; to entice to evil; to lead astray; to tempt and lead to iniquity; to corrupt.
Seduce (v. t.) Specifically, to induce to surrender chastity; to debauch by means of solicitation.
Seducement (n.) The act of seducing.
Seducement (n.) The means employed to seduce, as flattery, promises, deception, etc.; arts of enticing or corrupting.
Seducer (n.) One who, or that which, seduces; specifically, one who prevails over the chastity of a woman by enticements and persuasions.
Seducible (a.) Capable of being seduced; corruptible.
Seducing (a.) Seductive.
Seduction (n.) The act of seducing; enticement to wrong doing; specifically, the offense of inducing a woman to consent to unlawful sexual intercourse, by enticements which overcome her scruples; the wrong or crime of persuading a woman to surrender her chastity.
Seduction (n.) That which seduces, or is adapted to seduce; means of leading astray; as, the seductions of wealth.
Seductive (a.) Tending to lead astray; apt to mislead by flattering appearances; tempting; alluring; as, a seductive offer.
Seductively (adv.) In a seductive manner.
Seductress (n.) A woman who seduces.
Sedulity (n.) The quality or state of being sedulous; diligent and assiduous application; constant attention; unremitting industry; sedulousness.
Sedulous (a.) Diligent in application or pursuit; constant, steady, and persevering in business, or in endeavors to effect an object; steadily industrious; assiduous; as, the sedulous bee.
Sedum (n.) A genus of plants, mostly perennial, having succulent leaves and cymose flowers; orpine; stonecrop.
See (n.) A seat; a site; a place where sovereign power is exercised.
See (n.) Specifically: (a) The seat of episcopal power; a diocese; the jurisdiction of a bishop; as, the see of New York. (b) The seat of an archibishop; a province or jurisdiction of an archibishop; as, an archiepiscopal see. (c) The seat, place, or office of the pope, or Roman pontiff; as, the papal see. (d) The pope or his court at Rome; as, to appeal to the see of Rome.
Saw (imp.) of See
Seen (p. p.) of See
Seeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of See
See (v. t.) To perceive by the eye; to have knowledge of the existence and apparent qualities of by the organs of sight; to behold; to descry; to view.
See (v. t.) To perceive by mental vision; to form an idea or conception of; to note with the mind; to observe; to discern; to distinguish; to understand; to comprehend; to ascertain.
See (v. t.) To follow with the eyes, or as with the eyes; to watch; to regard attentivelly; to look after.
See (v. t.) To have an interview with; especially, to make a call upon; to visit; as, to go to see a friend.
See (v. t.) To fall in with; to have intercourse or communication with; hence, to have knowledge or experience of; as, to see military service.
See (v. t.) To accompany in person; to escort; to wait upon; as, to see one home; to see one aboard the cars.
See (v. i.) To have the power of sight, or of perceiving by the proper organs; to possess or employ the sense of vision; as, he sees distinctly.
See (v. i.) Figuratively: To have intellectual apprehension; to perceive; to know; to understand; to discern; -- often followed by a preposition, as through, or into.
See (v. i.) To be attentive; to take care; to give heed; -- generally with to; as, to see to the house.
Seed (pl. ) of Seed
Seeds (pl. ) of Seed
Seed (n.) A ripened ovule, consisting of an embryo with one or more integuments, or coverings; as, an apple seed; a currant seed. By germination it produces a new plant.
Seed (n.) Any small seedlike fruit, though it may consist of a pericarp, or even a calyx, as well as the seed proper; as, parsnip seed; thistle seed.
Seed (n.) The generative fluid of the male; semen; sperm; -- not used in the plural.
Seed (n.) That from which anything springs; first principle; original; source; as, the seeds of virtue or vice.
Seed (n.) The principle of production.
Seed (n.) Progeny; offspring; children; descendants; as, the seed of Abraham; the seed of David.
Seed (n.) Race; generation; birth.
Seeded (imp. & p. p.) of Seed
Seeding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seed
Seed (v. t.) To sprinkle with seed; to plant seeds in; to sow; as, to seed a field.
Seed (v. t.) To cover thinly with something scattered; to ornament with seedlike decorations.
Seedbox (n.) A capsule.
Seedbox (n.) A plant (Ludwigia alternifolia) which has somewhat cubical or box-shaped capsules.
Seedcake (n.) A sweet cake or cooky containing aromatic seeds, as caraway.
Seedcod (n.) A seedlip.
Seeder (n.) One who, or that which, sows or plants seed.
Seediness (n.) The quality or state of being seedy, shabby, or worn out; a state of wretchedness or exhaustion.
Seed-lac (n.) A species of lac. See the Note under Lac.
Seedless (a.) Without seed or seeds.
Seedling (n.) A plant reared from the seed, as distinguished from one propagated by layers, buds, or the like.
Seedlip (n.) Alt. of Seedlop
Seedlop (n.) A vessel in which a sower carries the seed to be scattered.
Seedman (See) Seedsman.
Seedness (n.) Seedtime.
Seedsmen (pl. ) of Seedsman
Seedsman (n.) A sower; one who sows or scatters seed.
Seedsman (n.) A person who deals in seeds.
Seedtime (n.) The season proper for sowing.
Seedy (superl.) Abounding with seeds; bearing seeds; having run to seeds.
Seedy (superl.) Having a peculiar flavor supposed to be derived from the weeds growing among the vines; -- said of certain kinds of French brandy.
Seedy (superl.) Old and worn out; exhausted; spiritless; also, poor and miserable looking; shabbily clothed; shabby looking; as, he looked seedy coat.
Seeing (conj. (but originally a present participle)) In view of the fact (that); considering; taking into account (that); insmuch as; since; because; -- followed by a dependent clause; as, he did well, seeing that he was so young.
Seek (a.) Sick.
Sought (imp. & p. p.) of Seek
Seeking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seek
Seek (v. t.) To go in search of; to look for; to search for; to try to find.
Seek (v. t.) To inquire for; to ask for; to solicit; to bessech.
Seek (v. t.) To try to acquire or gain; to strive after; to aim at; as, to seek wealth or fame; to seek one's life.
Seek (v. t.) To try to reach or come to; to go to; to resort to.
Seek (v. i.) To make search or inquiry: to endeavor to make discovery.
Seeker (n.) One who seeks; that which is used in seeking or searching.
Seeker (n.) One of a small heterogeneous sect of the 17th century, in Great Britain, who professed to be seeking the true church, ministry, and sacraments.
Seek-no-further (n.) A kind of choice winter apple, having a subacid taste; -- formerly called go-no-further.
Seek-sorrow (n.) One who contrives to give himself vexation.
Seeled (imp. & p. p.) of Seel
Seeling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seel
Seel (v. t.) To close the eyes of (a hawk or other bird) by drawing through the lids threads which were fastened over the head.
Seel (v. t.) Hence, to shut or close, as the eyes; to blind.
Seel (v. i.) To incline to one side; to lean; to roll, as a ship at sea.
Seel (n.) Alt. of Seeling
Seeling (n.) The rolling or agitation of a ship in a storm.
Seel (n.) Good fortune; favorable opportunity; prosperity. [Obs.] "So have I seel".
Seel (n.) Time; season; as, hay seel.
Seelily (adv.) In a silly manner.
Seely (a.) See Silly.
Seemed (imp. & p. p.) of Seem
Seeming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seem
Seem (a.) To appear, or to appear to be; to have a show or semblance; to present an appearance; to look; to strike one's apprehension or fancy as being; to be taken as.
Seem (v. t.) To befit; to beseem.
Seemer (n.) One who seems; one who carries or assumes an appearance or semblance.
Seeming (a.) Having a semblance, whether with or without reality; apparent; specious; befitting; as, seeming friendship; seeming truth.
Seeming (n.) Appearance; show; semblance; fair appearance; speciousness.
Seeming (n.) Apprehension; judgment.
Seemingly (adv.) In appearance; in show; in semblance; apparently; ostensibly.
Seemingness (n.) Semblance; fair appearance; plausibility.
Seemless (a.) Unseemly.
Seemlily (adv.) In a seemly manner.
Seemliness (n.) The quality or state of being seemly: comeliness; propriety.
Seemly (v. i.) Suited to the object, occasion, purpose, or character; suitable; fit; becoming; comely; decorous.
Seemly (superl.) In a decent or suitable manner; becomingly.
Seemlyhed (n.) Comely or decent appearance.
Seen () p. p. of See.
Seen (a.) Versed; skilled; accomplished.
Seep (v. i.) Alt. of Sipe
Sipe (v. i.) To run or soak through fine pores and interstices; to ooze.
Seepage (n.) Alt. of Sipage
Sipage (n.) Water that seeped or oozed through a porous soil.
Seepy (a.) Alt. of Sipy
Sipy (a.) Oozy; -- applied to land under cultivation that is not well drained.
Seer (a.) Sore; painful.
Seer (n.) One who sees.
Seer (n.) A person who foresees events; a prophet.
Seeress (n.) A female seer; a prophetess.
Seerfish (n.) A scombroid food fish of Madeira (Cybium Commersonii).
Seerhand (n.) A kind of muslin of a texture between nainsook and mull.
Seership (n.) The office or quality of a seer.
Seersucker (n.) A light fabric, originally made in the East Indies, of silk and linen, usually having alternating stripes, and a slightly craped or puckered surface; also, a cotton fabric of similar appearance.
Seerwood (n.) Dry wood.
Seesaw (n.) A play among children in which they are seated upon the opposite ends of a plank which is balanced in the middle, and move alternately up and down.
Seesaw (n.) A plank or board adjusted for this play.
Seesaw (n.) A vibratory or reciprocating motion.
Seesaw (n.) Same as Crossruff.
Seesawad (imp. & p. p.) of Seesaw
Seesawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seesaw
Seesaw (v. i.) To move with a reciprocating motion; to move backward and forward, or upward and downward.
Seesaw (v. t.) To cause to move backward and forward in seesaw fashion.
Seesaw (a.) Moving up and down, or to and fro; having a reciprocating motion.
Seet (imp.) Sate; sat.
Seeth () imp. of Seethe.
Seethed (imp.) of Seethe
Sod () of Seethe
Seethed (p. p.) of Seethe
Sodden () of Seethe
Seething (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seethe
Seethe (n.) To decoct or prepare for food in hot liquid; to boil; as, to seethe flesh.
Seethe (v. i.) To be a state of ebullition or violent commotion; to be hot; to boil.
Seether (n.) A pot for boiling things; a boiler.
Seg (n.) Sedge.
Seg (n.) The gladen, and other species of Iris.
Seg (n.) A castrated bull.
Segar (n.) See Cigar.
Seggar (n.) A case or holder made of fire clay, in which fine pottery is inclosed while baking in the kin.
Segge (n.) The hedge sparrow.
Segment (n.) One of the parts into which any body naturally separates or is divided; a part divided or cut off; a section; a portion; as, a segment of an orange; a segment of a compound or divided leaf.
Segment (n.) A part cut off from a figure by a line or plane; especially, that part of a circle contained between a chord and an arc of that circle, or so much of the circle as is cut off by the chord; as, the segment acb in the Illustration.
Segment (n.) A piece in the form of the sector of a circle, or part of a ring; as, the segment of a sectional fly wheel or flywheel rim.
Segment (n.) A segment gear.
Segment (n.) One of the cells or division formed by segmentation, as in egg cleavage or in fissiparous cell formation.
Segment (n.) One of the divisions, rings, or joints into which many animal bodies are divided; a somite; a metamere; a somatome.
Segment (v. i.) To divide or separate into parts in growth; to undergo segmentation, or cleavage, as in the segmentation of the ovum.
Segmental (a.) Relating to, or being, a segment.
Segmental (a.) Of or pertaining to the segments of animals; as, a segmental duct; segmental papillae.
Segmental (a.) Of or pertaining to the segmental organs.
Segmentation (n.) The act or process of dividing into segments; specifically (Biol.), a self-division into segments as a result of growth; cell cleavage; cell multiplication; endogenous cell formation.
Segmented (a.) Divided into segments or joints; articulated.
Segnitude (n.) Alt. of Segnity
Segnity (n.) Sluggishness; dullness; inactivity.
Segno (n.) A sign. See Al segno, and Dal segno.
Sego (n.) A liliaceous plant (Calochortus Nuttallii) of Western North America, and its edible bulb; -- so called by the Ute Indians and the Mormons.
Segregate (a.) Separate; select.
Segregate (a.) Separated from others of the same kind.
Segregated (imp. & p. p.) of Segregate
Segregating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Segregate
Segregate (v. t.) To separate from others; to set apart.
Segregate (v. i.) To separate from a mass, and collect together about centers or along lines of fracture, as in the process of crystallization or solidification.
Segregation (n.) The act of segregating, or the state of being segregated; separation from others; a parting.
Segregation (n.) Separation from a mass, and gathering about centers or into cavities at hand through cohesive attraction or the crystallizing process.
Seiches (n. pl.) Local oscillations in level observed in the case of some lakes, as Lake Geneva.
Seid (n.) A descendant of Mohammed through his daughter Fatima and nephew Ali.
Seidlitz (a.) Of or pertaining to Seidlitz, a village in Bohemia.
Seigh () obs. imp. sing. of See. Saw.
Seigneurial (a.) Of or pertaining to the lord of a manor; manorial.
Seigneurial (a.) Vested with large powers; independent.
Seignior (n.) A lord; the lord of a manor.
Seignior (n.) A title of honor or of address in the South of Europe, corresponding to Sir or Mr. in English.
Seigniorage (n.) Something claimed or taken by virtue of sovereign prerogative; specifically, a charge or toll deducted from bullion brought to a mint to be coined; the difference between the cost of a mass of bullion and the value as money of the pieces coined from it.
Seigniorage (n.) A share of the receipts of a business taken in payment for the use of a right, as a copyright or a patent.
Seignioral (a.) Of or pertaining to a seignior; seigneurial.
Seignioralty (n.) The territory or authority of a seignior, or lord.
Seigniorial (a.) Same as Seigneurial.
Seigniorize (v. t.) To lord it over.
-ies (pl. ) of Seigniory
Seigniory (n.) The power or authority of a lord; dominion.
Seigniory (n.) The territory over which a lord holds jurisdiction; a manor.
Seine (n.) A large net, one edge of which is provided with sinkers, and the other with floats. It hangs vertically in the water, and when its ends are brought together or drawn ashore incloses the fish.
Seiner (n.) One who fishes with a seine.
Seining (n.) Fishing with a seine.
Seint (n.) A girdle.
Seint (n.) A saint.
Seintuary (n.) Sanctuary.
Seirfish (n.) Same as Seerfish.
Seirospore (n.) One of several spores arranged in a chain as in certain algae of the genus Callithamnion.
Seise (v. t.) See Seize.
Seisin (n.) See Seizin.
Seismic (a.) Alt. of Seismal
Seismal (a.) Of or pertaining to an earthquake; caused by an earthquake.
Seismograph (n.) An apparatus for registering the shocks and undulatory motions of earthquakes.
Seismographic (a.) Of or pertaining to a seismograph; indicated by a seismograph.
Seismography (n.) A writing about, or a description of, earthquakes.
Seismography (n.) The art of registering the shocks and undulatory movements of earthquakes.
Seismological (a.) Of or pertaining to seismology.
Seismology (n.) The science of earthquakes.
Seismometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the direction, duration, and force of earthquakes and like concussions.
Seismometric (a.) Of or pertaining to seismometry, or seismometer; as, seismometric instruments; seismometric measurements.
Seismometry (n.) The mensuration of such phenomena of earthquakes as can be expressed in numbers, or by their relation to the coordinates of space.
Seismoscope (n.) A seismometer.
Seity (n.) Something peculiar to one's self.
Seizable (a.) That may be seized.
Seized (imp. & p. p.) of Seize
Seizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seize
Seize (v. t.) To fall or rush upon suddenly and lay hold of; to gripe or grasp suddenly; to reach and grasp.
Seize (v. t.) To take possession of by force.
Seize (v. t.) To invade suddenly; to take sudden hold of; to come upon suddenly; as, a fever seizes a patient.
Seize (v. t.) To take possession of by virtue of a warrant or other legal authority; as, the sheriff seized the debtor's goods.
Seize (v. t.) To fasten; to fix.
Seize (v. t.) To grap with the mind; to comprehend fully and distinctly; as, to seize an idea.
Seize (v. t.) To bind or fasten together with a lashing of small stuff, as yarn or marline; as, to seize ropes.
Seizer (n.) One who, or that which, seizes.
Seizin (n.) Possession; possession of an estate of froehold. It may be either in deed or in law; the former when there is actual possession, the latter when there is a right to such possession by construction of law. In some of the United States seizin means merely ownership.
Seizin (n.) The act of taking possession.
Seizin (n.) The thing possessed; property.
Seizing (n.) The act of taking or grasping suddenly.
Seizing (n.) The operation of fastening together or lashing.
Seizing (n.) The cord or lashing used for such fastening.
Seizor (n.) One who seizes, or takes possession.
Seizure (n.) The act of seizing, or the state of being seized; sudden and violent grasp or gripe; a taking into possession; as, the seizure of a thief, a property, a throne, etc.
Seizure (n.) Retention within one's grasp or power; hold; possession; ownership.
Seizure (n.) That which is seized, or taken possession of; a thing laid hold of, or possessed.
Sejant (a.) Alt. of Sejeant
Sejeant (a.) Sitting, as a lion or other beast.
Sejein (v. t.) To separate.
Sejunction (n.) The act of disjoining, or the state of being disjoined.
Sejungible (a.) Capable of being disjoined.
Seke (a.) Sick.
Seke (v. t. & i.) To seek.
Sekes (n.) A place in a pagan temple in which the images of the deities were inclosed.
Selachian (n.) One of the Selachii. See Illustration in Appendix.
Selachii (n. pl.) An order of elasmobranchs including the sharks and rays; the Plagiostomi. Called also Selacha, Selache, and Selachoidei.
Selachoidei (n. pl.) Same as Selachii.
Selachostomi (n. pl.) A division of ganoid fishes which includes the paddlefish, in which the mouth is armed with small teeth.
Selaginella (n.) A genus of cryptogamous plants resembling Lycopodia, but producing two kinds of spores; also, any plant of this genus. Many species are cultivated in conservatories.
Selah (n.) A word of doubtful meaning, occuring frequently in the Psalms; by some, supposed to signify silence or a pause in the musical performance of the song.
Selcouth (n.) Rarely known; unusual; strange.
Seld (a.) Rare; uncommon; unusual.
Seld (adv.) Rarely; seldom.
Selden (adv.) Seldom.
Seldem (superl) Rarely; not often; not frequently.
Seldom (a.) Rare; infrequent.
Seldomness (n.) Rareness.
Seldseen (a.) Seldom seen.
Seldshewn (a.) Rarely shown or exhibited.
Select (a.) Taken from a number by preferance; picked out as more valuable or exellent than others; of special value or exellence; nicely chosen; selected; choice.
Selected (imp. & p. p.) of Select
Selecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Select
Select (v. t.) To choose and take from a number; to take by preference from among others; to pick out; to cull; as, to select the best authors for perusal.
Selectedly (adv.) With care and selection.
Selection (n.) The act of selecting, or the state of being selected; choice, by preference.
Selection (n.) That which is selected; a collection of things chosen; as, a choice selection of books.
Selective (a.) Selecting; tending to select.
Selectmen (pl. ) of Selectman
Selectman (n.) One of a board of town officers chosen annually in the New England States to transact the general public business of the town, and have a kind of executive authority. The number is usually from three to seven in each town.
Selectness (n.) The quality or state of being select.
Selector (n.) One who selects.
Selenate (n.) A salt of selenic acid; -- formerly called also seleniate.
Selenhydric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, hydrogen selenide, H2Se, regarded as an acid analogous to sulphydric acid.
Selenic (a.) Of or pertaining to selenium; derived from, or containing, selenium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as contrasted with selenious compounds.
Selenide (n.) A binary compound of selenium, or a compound regarded as binary; as, ethyl selenide.
Seleniferous (a.) Containing, or impregnated with, selenium; as, seleniferous pyrites.
Selenio- () A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting the presence of selenium or its compounds; as, selenio-phosphate, a phosphate having selenium in place of all, or a part, of the oxygen.
Selenious (a.) Of, pertaining to, or containing, selenium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with selenic compounds.
Selenite (n.) A salt of selenious acid.
Selenite (n.) A variety of gypsum, occuring in transparent crystals or crystalline masses.
Selenitic (a.) Alt. of Selenitical
Selenitical (a.) Of or pertaining to selenite; resembling or containing selenite.
Selenium (n.) A nonmetallic element of the sulphur group, and analogous to sulphur in its compounds. It is found in small quantities with sulphur and some sulphur ores, and obtained in the free state as a dark reddish powder or crystalline mass, or as a dark metallic-looking substance. It exhibits under the action of light a remarkable variation in electric conductivity, and is used in certain electric apparatus. Symbol Se. Atomic weight 78.9.
Seleniuret (n.) A selenide.
Seleniureted (a.) Combined with selenium as in a selenide; as, seleniureted hydrogen.
Selenecentric (a.) As seen or estimated from the center of the moon; with the moon central.
Selenograph (n.) A picture or delineation of the moon's surface, or of any part of it.
Selenographer (n.) One skilled in selenography.
Selenographic (a.) Alt. of Selenographical
Selenographical (a.) Of or pertaining to selenography.
Selenographist (n.) A selenographer.
Selenography (n.) The science that treats of the physical features of the moon; -- corresponding to physical geography in respect to the earth.
Selenonium (n.) A hypothetical radical of selenium, analogous to sulphonium.
Selenology (n.) That branch of astronomy which treats of the moon.
Self (a.) Same; particular; very; identical.
Selves (pl. ) of Self
Self (n.) The individual as the object of his own reflective consciousness; the man viewed by his own cognition as the subject of all his mental phenomena, the agent in his own activities, the subject of his own feelings, and the possessor of capacities and character; a person as a distinct individual; a being regarded as having personality.
Self (n.) Hence, personal interest, or love of private interest; selfishness; as, self is his whole aim.
Self (n.) Personification; embodiment.
Self-abased (a.) Humbled by consciousness of inferiority, unworthiness, guilt, or shame.
Self-abasement (n.) Degradation of one's self by one's own act.
Self-abasement (n.) Humiliation or abasement proceeding from consciousness of inferiority, guilt, or shame.
Self-abasing (a.) Lowering or humbling one's self.
Self-abhorrence (n.) Abhorrence of one's self.
Self-abnegation (n.) Self-denial; self-renunciation; self-sacrifice.
Self-abuse (n.) The abuse of one's own self, powers, or faculties.
Self-abuse (n.) Self-deception; delusion.
Self-abuse (n.) Masturbation; onanism; self-pollution.
Self-accused (a.) Accused by one's self or by one's conscience.
Self-acting (a.) Acting of or by one's self or by itself; -- said especially of a machine or mechanism which is made to perform of or for itself what is usually done by human agency; automatic; as, a self-acting feed apparatus; a self-acting mule; a self-acting press.
Self-action (n.) Action by, or originating in, one's self or itself.
Self-active (a.) Acting of one's self or of itself; acting without depending on other agents.
Self-activity (n.) The quality or state of being self-active; self-action.
Self-adjusting (a.) Capable of assuming a desired position or condition with relation to other parts, under varying circumstances, without requiring to be adjusted by hand; -- said of a piece in machinery.
Self-admiration (n.) Admiration of one's self.
Self-affairs (n. pl.) One's own affairs; one's private business.
Self-affrighted (a.) Frightened at or by one's self.
Self-aggrandizement (n.) The aggrandizement of one's self.
Self-annihilated (a.) Annihilated by one's self.
Self-annihilation (n.) Annihilation by one's own acts; annihilation of one's desires.
Self-applause (n.) Applause of one's self.
Self-applying (a.) Applying to or by one's self.
Self-approving (a.) Approving one's own action or character by one's own judgment.
Self-asserting (a.) asserting one's self, or one's own rights or claims; hence, putting one's self forward in a confident or assuming manner.
Self-assertion (n.) The act of asserting one's self, or one's own rights or claims; the quality of being self-asserting.
Self-assertive (a.) Disposed to self-assertion; self-asserting.
Self-assumed (a.) Assumed by one's own act, or without authority.
Self-assured (a.) Assured by or of one's self; self-reliant; complacent.
Self-banished (a.) Exiled voluntarily.
Self-begetten (a.) Begotten by one's self, or one's own powers.
Self-bern (a.) Born or produced by one's self.
Self-centered (a.) Alt. of Self-centred
Self-centred (a.) Centered in itself, or in one's self.
Self-centering (a.) Alt. of Self-centring
Self-centring (a.) Centering in one's self.
Self-centration (n.) The quality or state of being self-centered.
Self-charity (n.) Self-love.
Self-color (n.) A color not mixed or variegated.
Self-celored (a.) Being of a single color; -- applied to flowers, animals, and textile fabrics.
Self-command (n.) Control over one's own feelings, temper, etc.; self-control.
Self-commune (n.) Self-communion.
Self-communicative (a.) Imparting or communicating by its own powers.
Self-communion (n.) Communion with one's self; thoughts about one's self.
Self-complacency (n.) The quality of being self-complacent.
Self-complacent (a.) Satisfied with one's own character, capacity, and doings; self-satisfied.
Self-conceit (n.) Conceit of one's self; an overweening opinion of one's powers or endowments.
Self-conceited (a.) Having an overweening opinion of one's own powers, attainments; vain; conceited.
Self-concern (n.) Concern for one's self.
Self-condemnation (n.) Condemnation of one's self by one's own judgment.
Self-confidence (n.) The quality or state of being self-confident; self-reliance.
Self-confident (a.) Confident of one's own strength or powers; relying on one's judgment or ability; self-reliant.
Self-conjugate (a.) Having the two things that are conjugate parts of the same figure; as, self-conjugate triangles.
Self-conscious (a.) Conscious of one's acts or state as belonging to, or originating in, one's self.
Self-conscious (a.) Conscious of one's self as an object of the observation of others; as, the speaker was too self-conscious.
Self-consciousness (n.) The quality or state of being self-conscious.
Self-considering (a.) Considering in one's own mind; deliberating.
Self-consistency (n.) The quality or state of being self-consistent.
Self-cconsistent (a.) Consistent with one's self or with itself; not deviation from the ordinary standard by which the conduct is guided; logically consistent throughout; having each part consistent with the rest.
Self-consuming (a.) Consuming one's self or itself.
Self-contained (a.) Having self-control; reserved; uncommunicative; wholly engrossed in one's self.
Self-contained (a.) Having all the essential working parts connected by a bedplate or framework, or contained in a case, etc., so that mutual relations of the parts do not depend upon fastening outside of the machine itself.
Self-contradiction (n.) The act of contradicting one's self or itself; repugnancy in conceptions or in terms; a proposition consisting of two members, one of which contradicts the other; as, to be and not to be at the same time is a self-contradiction.
Self-contradictory (a.) Contradicting one's self or itself.
Self-control (n.) Control of one's self; restraint exercised over one's self; self-command.
Self-convicted (a.) Convicted by one's own consciousness, knowledge, avowal, or acts.
Self-conviction (n.) The act of convicting one's self, or the state of being self-convicted.
Self-created (a.) Created by one's self; not formed or constituted by another.
Self-culture (n.) Culture, training, or education of one's self by one's own efforts.
Self-deceit (n.) The act of deceiving one's self, or the state of being self-deceived; self-deception.
Self-deceived (a.) Deceived or misled respecting one's self by one's own mistake or error.
Self-deception (n.) Self-deceit.
Self-defence (n.) See Self-defense.
Self-defense (n.) The act of defending one's own person, property, or reputation.
Self-defensive (a.) Defending, or tending to defend, one's own person, property, or reputation.
Self-degradation (n.) The act of degrading one's self, or the state of being so degraded.
Self-delation (n.) Accusation of one's self.
Self-delusion (n.) The act of deluding one's self, or the state of being thus deluded.
Self-denial (n.) The denial of one's self; forbearing to gratify one's own desires; self-sacrifice.
Self-denying (a.) Refusing to gratify one's self; self-sacrificing.
Self-dependent (a.) Dependent on one's self; self-depending; self-reliant.
Self-depending (a.) Depending on one's self.
Self-depraved (a.) Corrupted or depraved by one's self.
Self-destroyer (n.) One who destroys himself; a suicide.
Self-destruction (n.) The destruction of one's self; self-murder; suicide.
Self-destructive (a.) Destroying, or tending to destroy, one's self or itself; rucidal.
Self-determination (n.) Determination by one's self; or, determination of one's acts or states without the necessitating force of motives; -- applied to the voluntary or activity.
Self-determining (a.) Capable of self-determination; as, the self-determining power of will.
Self-devised (a.) Devised by one's self.
Self-devoted (a.) Devoted in person, or by one's own will.
Self-devotement (n.) Self-devotion.
Self-devotion (n.) The act of devoting one's self, or the state of being self-devoted; willingness to sacrifice one's own advantage or happiness for the sake of others; self-sacrifice.
Self-devouring (a.) Devouring one's self or itself.
Self-diffusive (a.) Having power to diffuse itself; diffusing itself.
Self-discipline (n.) Correction or government of one's self for the sake of improvement.
Self-distrust (n.) Want of confidence in one' self; diffidence.
Self-educated (a.) Educated by one's own efforts, without instruction, or without pecuniary assistance from others.
Self-elective (a.) Having the right of electing one's self, or, as a body, of electing its own members.
Self-enjoyment (n.) Enjoyment of one's self; self-satisfaction.
Self-esteem (n.) The holding a good opinion of one's self; self-complacency.
Self-estimation (n.) The act of estimating one's self; self-esteem.
Self-evidence (n.) The quality or state of being self-evident.
Self-evident (a.) Evident without proof or reasoning; producing certainty or conviction upon a bare presentation to the mind; as, a self-evident proposition or truth.
Self-evolution (n.) Evolution of one's self; development by inherent quality or power.
Self-exaltation (n.) The act of exalting one's self, or the state of being so exalted.
Self-examinant (n.) One who examines himself; one given to self-examination.
Self-examination (n.) An examination into one's own state, conduct, and motives, particularly in regard to religious feelings and duties.
Self-existence (n.) Inherent existence; existence possessed by virtue of a being's own nature, and independent of any other being or cause; -- an attribute peculiar to God.
Self-existent (a.) Existing of or by himself,independent of any other being or cause; -- as, God is the only self-existent being.
self-explaining (a.) Explaining itself; capable of being understood without explanation.
Self-exposure (n.) The act of exposing one's self; the state of being so exposed.
Self-fertilization (n.) The fertilization of a flower by pollen from the same flower and without outer aid; autogamy.
Self-fertilized (a.) Fertilized by pollen from the same flower.
Self-glorious (a.) Springing from vainglory or vanity; vain; boastful.
Self-government (n.) The act of governing one's self, or the state of being governed by one's self; self-control; self-command.
Self-government (n.) Hence, government of a community, state, or nation by the joint action of the mass of people constituting such a civil body; also, the state of being so governed; democratic government; democracy.
Self-gratulation (n.) Gratulation of one's self.
Self-heal (n.) A blue-flowered labiate plant (Brunella vulgaris); the healall.
Self-healing (a.) Having the power or property of healing itself.
Self-help (n.) The act of aiding one's self, without depending on the aid of others.
Self-homicide (n.) The act of killing one's self; suicide.
Selfhood (n.) Existence as a separate self, or independent person; conscious personality; individuality.
Self-ignorance (n.) Ignorance of one's own character, powers, and limitations.
Self-ignorant (a.) Ignorant of one's self.
Self-imparting (a.) Imparting by one's own, or by its own, powers and will.
Self-importance (n.) An exaggerated estimate of one's own importance or merit, esp. as manifested by the conduct or manners; self-conceit.
Self-important (a.) Having or manifesting an exaggerated idea of one's own importance or merit.
Self-imposed (a.) Voluntarily taken on one's self; as, self-imposed tasks.
Self-imposture (n.) Imposture practiced on one's self; self-deceit.
Self-indignation (n.) Indignation at one's own character or actions.
Self-indulgence (n.) Indulgence of one's appetites, desires, or inclinations; -- the opposite of self-restraint, and self-denial.
Self-indulgent (a.) Indulging one's appetites, desires, etc., freely.
Self-interest (n.) Private interest; the interest or advantage of one's self.
Self-interested (a.) Particularly concerned for one's own interest or happiness.
Self-involution (n.) Involution in one's self; hence, abstraction of thought; reverie.
Selfish (a.) Caring supremely or unduly for one's self; regarding one's own comfort, advantage, etc., in disregard, or at the expense, of those of others.
Selfish (a.) Believing or teaching that the chief motives of human action are derived from love of self.
Selfishly (adv.) In a selfish manner; with regard to private interest only or chiefly.
Selfishness (n.) The quality or state of being selfish; exclusive regard to one's own interest or happiness; that supreme self-love or self-preference which leads a person to direct his purposes to the advancement of his own interest, power, or happiness, without regarding those of others.
Selfism (n.) Concentration of one's interests on one's self; self-love; selfishness.
Selfist (n.) A selfish person.
Self-justifier (n.) One who excuses or justifies himself.
Self-kindled (a.) Kindled of itself, or without extraneous aid or power.
Self-knowing (a.) Knowing one's self, or one's own character, powers, and limitations.
Self-knowing (a.) Knowing of itself, without help from another.
Self-knowledge (n.) Knowledge of one's self, or of one's own character, powers, limitations, etc.
Selfless (a.) Having no regard to self; unselfish.
Selflessness (n.) Quality or state of being selfless.
Self-life (n.) Life for one's self; living solely or chiefly for one's own pleasure or good.
Self-love (n.) The love of one's self; desire of personal happiness; tendency to seek one's own benefit or advantage.
Self-luminous (a.) Possessing in itself the property of emitting light.
Self-made (a.) Made by one's self.
Self-mettle (n.) Inborn mettle or courage; one's own temper.
Self-motion (n.) Motion given by inherent power, without external impulse; spontaneus or voluntary motion.
Self-moved (a.) Moved by inherent power., without the aid of external impulse.
Self-moving (a.) Moving by inherent power, without the aid of external impulse.
Self-murder (a.) Suicide.
Self-murderer (n.) A suicide.
Self-neglecting (n.) A neglecting of one's self, or of one's own interests.
Selfness (n.) Selfishness.
Self-one (a.) Secret.
Self-opinion (n.) Opinion, especially high opinion, of one's self; an overweening estimate of one's self or of one's own opinion.
Self-opinioned (a.) Having a high opinion of one's self; opinionated; conceited.
Self-opininating (a.) Beginning wwith, or springing from, one's self.
Self-partiality (n.) That partiality to himself by which a man overrates his own worth when compared with others.
Self-perplexed (a.) Perplexed by doubts originating in one's own mind.
Self-posited (a.) Disposed or arranged by an action originating in one's self or in itself.
Self-positing (a.) The act of disposing or arranging one's self or itself.
Self-possessed (a.) Composed or tranquill in mind, manner, etc.; undisturbed.
Self-possession (n.) The possession of one's powers; calmness; self-command; presence of mind; composure.
Self-praise (n.) Praise of one's self.
Self-preservation (n.) The preservation of one's self from destruction or injury.
Self-propagating (a.) Propagating by one's self or by itself.
Self-registering (a.) Registering itself; -- said of any instrument so contrived as to record its own indications of phenomena, whether continuously or at stated times, as at the maxima and minima of variations; as, a self-registering anemometer or barometer.
Self-regulated (a.) Regulated by one's self or by itself.
Self-regulative (a.) Tending or serving to regulate one's self or itself.
Self-reliance (n.) Reliance on one's own powers or judgment; self-trust.
Self-reliant (a.) Reliant upon one's self; trusting to one's own powers or judgment.
Self-renunciation (n.) The act of renouncing, or setting aside, one's own wishes, claims, etc.; self-sacrifice.
Self-repellency (n.) The quality or state of being self-repelling.
Self-repelling (a.) Made up of parts, as molecules or atoms, which mutually repel each other; as, gases are self-repelling.
Self-repetition (n.) Repetition of one's self or of one's acts; the saying or doing what one has already said or done.
Self-reproach (n.) The act of reproaching one's self; censure by one's own conscience.
Self-reproached (a.) Reproached by one's own conscience or judgment.
Self-reproaching (a.) Reproaching one's self.
Self-reproof (n.) The act of reproving one's self; censure of one's conduct by one's own judgment.
Self-reproved (a.) Reproved by one's own conscience or one's own sense of guilt.
Self-reproving (a.) Reproving one's self; reproving by consciousness of guilt.
Self-reprovingly (adv.) In a self-reproving way.
Self-repugnant (a.) Self-contradictory; inconsistent.
Self-repulsive (a.) Self-repelling.
Self-respect (n.) Respect for one's self; regard for one's character; laudable self-esteem.
Self-restrained (a.) Restrained by one's self or itself; restrained by one's own power or will.
Self-restraint (n.) Restraint over one's self; self-control; self-command.
Self-reverence (n.) A reverent respect for one's self.
Self-righteous (a.) Righteous in one's own esteem; pharisaic.
Self-righteousness (n.) The quality or state of being self-righteous; pharisaism.
Self-sacrifice (n.) The act of sacrificing one's self, or one's interest, for others; self-devotion.
Self-sacrificing (a.) Yielding up one's own interest, ffeelings, etc; sacrificing one's self.
Selfsame (a.) Precisely the same; the very same; identical.
Self-satisfaction (n.) The quality or state of being self-satisfied.
Self-satisfied (a.) Satisfied with one's self or one's actions; self-complacent.
Self-satisfying (a.) Giving satisfaction to one's self.
Self-seeker (n.) One who seeks only his own interest, advantage, or pleasure.
Self-seeking (a.) Seeking one's own interest or happiness; selfish.
Self-seeking (n.) The act or habit of seeking one's own interest or happiness; selfishness.
Self-slaughter (n.) Suicide.
Self-sufficiency (n.) The quality or state of being self-sufficient.
Self-sufficient (a.) Sufficient for one's self without external aid or cooperation.
Self-sufficient (a.) Having an overweening confidence in one's own abilities or worth; hence, haughty; overbearing.
Self-sufficing (a.) Sufficing for one's self or for itself, without needing external aid; self-sufficient.
Self-suspended (a.) Suspended by one's self or by itself; balanced.
Self-suspicious (a.) Suspicious or distrustful of one's self.
Self-taught (a.) Taught by one's own efforts.
Self-tormentor (n.) One who torments himself.
Self-torture (n.) The act of inflicting pain on one's self; pain inflicted on one's self.
Self-trust (n.) Faith in one's self; self-reliance.
Self-uned (a.) One with itself; separate from others.
Self-view (n.) A view if one's self; specifically, carefulness or regard for one's own interests
Self-will (n.) One's own will, esp. when opposed to that of others; obstinacy.
Self-willed (a.) Governed by one's own will; not yielding to the wishes of others; obstinate.
Self-willedness (n.) Obstinacy.
Self-worship (n.) The idolizing of one's self; immoderate self-conceit.
Self-wrong (n.) Wrong done by a person himself.
Selion (n.) A short piece of land in arable ridges and furrows, of uncertain quantity; also, a ridge of land lying between two furrows.
Seljukian (a.) Of or pertaining to Seljuk, a Tartar chief who embraced Mohammedanism, and began the subjection of Western Asia to that faith and rule; of or pertaining to the dynasty founded by him, or the empire maintained by his descendants from the 10th to the 13th century.
Seljuckian (n.) A member of the family of Seljuk; an adherent of that family, or subject of its government; (pl.) the dynasty of Turkish sultans sprung from Seljuk.
Sell (n.) Self.
Sell (n.) A sill.
Sell (n.) A cell; a house.
Sell (n.) A saddle for a horse.
Sell (n.) A throne or lofty seat.
Sold (imp. & p. p.) of Sell
Selling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sell
Sell (v. t.) To transfer to another for an equivalent; to give up for a valuable consideration; to dispose of in return for something, especially for money.
Sell (v. t.) To make a matter of bargain and sale of; to accept a price or reward for, as for a breach of duty, trust, or the like; to betray.
Sell (v. t.) To impose upon; to trick; to deceive; to make a fool of; to cheat.
Sell (v. i.) To practice selling commodities.
Sell (v. i.) To be sold; as, corn sells at a good price.
Sell (n.) An imposition; a cheat; a hoax.
Sellanders (n. pl.) Alt. of Sellenders
Sellenders (n. pl.) See Sallenders.
Seller (n.) One who sells.
Selters water () A mineral water from Sellers, in the district of Nassan, Germany, containing much free carbonic acid.
Seltzer water () See Selters water.
Seltzo-gene (n.) A gazogene.
Selvage (n.) Alt. of Selvedge
Selvedge (n.) The edge of cloth which is woven in such a manner as to prevent raveling.
Selvedge (n.) The edge plate of a lock, through which the bolt passes.
Selvedge (n.) A layer of clay or decomposed rock along the wall of a vein. See Gouge, n., 4.
Selvaged (a.) Alt. of Selvedged
Selvedged (a.) Having a selvage.
Selvagee (n.) A skein or hank of rope yarns wound round with yarns or marline, -- used for stoppers, straps, etc.
Selve (a.) Self; same.
Selves (n.) pl. of Self.
Sely (a.) Silly.
Semaeostomata (n. pl.) A division of Discophora having large free mouth lobes. It includes Aurelia, and Pelagia. Called also Semeostoma. See Illustr. under Discophora, and Medusa.
Semaphore (n.) A signal telegraph; an apparatus for giving signals by the disposition of lanterns, flags, oscillating arms, etc.
Semaphoric (a.) Alt. of Semaphorical
Semaphorical (a.) Of or pertaining to a semaphore, or semaphores; telegraphic.
Semaphorically (adv.) By means of a semaphore.
Semaphorist (n.) One who manages or operates a semaphore.
Sematology (n.) The doctrine of signs as the expression of thought or reasoning; the science of indicating thought by signs.
Sematrope (n.) An instrument for signaling by reflecting the rays of the sun in different directions.
Semblable (a.) Like; similar; resembling.
Semblable (n.) Likeness; representation.
Semblably (adv.) In like manner.
Semblance (a.) Seeming; appearance; show; figure; form.
Semblance (a.) Likeness; resemblance, actual or apparent; similitude; as, the semblance of worth; semblance of virtue.
Semblant (a.) Like; resembling.
Semblant (a.) Seeming, rather than real; apparent.
Semblant (n.) Show; appearance; figure; semblance.
Semblant (n.) The face.
Semblative (a.) Resembling.
Semble (a.) To imitate; to make a representation or likeness.
Semble (a.) It seems; -- chiefly used impersonally in reports and judgments to express an opinion in reference to the law on some point not necessary to be decided, and not intended to be definitely settled in the cause.
Semble (a.) Like; resembling.
Sembling (n.) The practice of attracting the males of Lepidoptera or other insects by exposing the female confined in a cage.
Seme (a.) Sprinkled or sown; -- said of field, or a charge, when strewed or covered with small charges.
Semeiography (n.) Alt. of Semiography
Semiography (n.) A description of the signs of disease.
Semeiological (a.) Alt. of Semiologioal
Semiologioal (a.) Of or pertaining to the science of signs, or the systematic use of signs; as, a semeiological classification of the signs or symptoms of disease; a semeiological arrangement of signs used as signals.
Semeiology (n.) Alt. of Semiology
Semiology (n.) The science or art of signs.
Semiology (n.) The science of the signs or symptoms of disease; symptomatology.
Semiology (n.) The art of using signs in signaling.
Semeiotic (a.) Alt. of Semiotic
Semiotic (a.) Relating to signs or indications; pertaining to the language of signs, or to language generally as indicating thought.
Semiotic (a.) Of or pertaining to the signs or symptoms of diseases.
Semeiotics (n.) Alt. of Semiotics
Semiotics (n.) Semeiology.
Semele (n.) A daughter of Cadmus, and by Zeus mother of Bacchus.
Semina (pl. ) of Semen
Semen (n.) The seed of plants.
Semen (n.) The seed or fecundating fluid of male animals; sperm. It is a white or whitish viscid fluid secreted by the testes, characterized by the presence of spermatozoids to which it owes its generative power.
Semeniferous (a.) Seminiferous.
Semester (n.) A period of six months; especially, a term in a college or uneversity which divides the year into two terms.
Semi- () A prefix signifying half, and sometimes partly or imperfectly; as, semiannual, half yearly; semitransparent, imperfectly transparent.
Semiacid (a.) Slightly acid; subacid.
Semiacidified (a.) Half acidified.
Semiadherent (a.) Adherent part way.
Semiamplexicaul (a.) Partially amplexicaul; embracing the stem half round, as a leaf.
Semiangle (n.) The half of a given, or measuring, angle.
Semiiannual (a.) Half-yearly.
Semiannually (adv.) Every half year.
Semiannular (a.) Having the figure of a half circle; forming a semicircle.
Semi-Arian (n.) A member of a branch of the Arians which did not acknowledge the Son to be consubstantial with the Father, that is, of the same substance, but admitted him to be of a like substance with the Father, not by nature, but by a peculiar privilege.
Semi-Arian (a.) Of or pertaining to Semi-Arianism.
Semi-Arianism (n.) The doctrines or tenets of the Semi-Arians.
Semiaxis (n.) One half of the axis of an /llipse or other figure.
Semibarbarian (a.) Half barbarous; partially civilized.
Semibarbarian (n.) One partly civilized.
Semibarbaric (a.) Half barbarous or uncivilized; as, semibarbaric display.
Semibarbarism (n.) The quality or state of being half barbarous or uncivilized.
Semibarbarous (a.) Half barbarous.
Semibreve (n.) A note of half the time or duration of the breve; -- now usually called a whole note. It is the longest note in general use.
Semibrief (n.) A semibreve.
Semibull (n.) A bull issued by a pope in the period between his election and coronation.
Semicalcareous (a.) Half or partially calcareous; as, a semicalcareous plant.
Semicalcined (a.) Half calcined; as, semicalcined iron.
Semicastrate (v. t.) To deprive of one testicle.
Semicentennial (a.) Of or pertaining to half of a century, or a period of fifty years; as, a semicentennial commemoration.
Semicentennial (n.) A fiftieth anniversary.
Semichaotic (a.) Partially chaotic.
Semichorus (n.) A half chorus; a passage to be sung by a selected portion of the voices, as the female voices only, in contrast with the full choir.
Semi-Christianized (a.) Half Christianized.
Semicircle (n.) The half of a circle; the part of a circle bounded by its diameter and half of its circumference.
Semicircle (n.) A semicircumference.
Semicircle (n.) A body in the form of half of a circle, or half of a circumference.
Semicircle (n.) An instrument for measuring angles.
Semicircled (a.) Semicircular.
Semicircular (a.) Having the form of half of a circle.
Semi circumference (n.) Half of a circumference.
Semicirque (n.) A semicircular hollow or opening among trees or hills.
Semicolon (n.) The punctuation mark [;] indicating a separation between parts or members of a sentence more distinct than that marked by a comma.
Semicolumn (n.) A half column; a column bisected longitudinally, or along its axis.
Semicolumnar (a.) Like a semicolumn; flat on one side and round on the other; imperfectly columnar.
Semicompact (a.) Half compact; imperfectly indurated.
Semiconscious (a.) Half conscious; imperfectly conscious.
Semicope (n.) A short cope, or an inferier kind of cope.
Semi crustaceous (a.) Half crustaceous; partially crustaceous.
Semicrystalline (a.) Half crystalline; -- said of certain cruptive rocks composed partly of crystalline, partly of amorphous matter.
Semicubical (a.) Of or pertaining to the square root of the cube of a quantity.
Semicubium (n.) Alt. of Semicupium
Semicupium (n.) A half bath, or one that covers only the lewer extremities and the hips; a sitz-bath; a half bath, or hip bath.
Semicylindric (a.) Alt. of Semicylyndrical
Semicylyndrical (a.) Half cylindrical.
Semideistical (a.) Half deisticsl; bordering on deism.
Semidemiquaver (n.) A demisemiquaver; a thirty-second note.
Semidetached (a.) Half detached; partly distinct or separate.
Semidiameter (n.) Half of a diameter; a right line, or the length of a right line, drawn from the center of a circle, a sphere, or other curved figure, to its circumference or periphery; a radius.
Semidiapason (n.) An imperfect octave.
Semidiapente (n.) An imperfect or diminished fifth.
Semidiaphaneity (n.) Half or imperfect transparency; translucency.
Semidiaphanous (a.) Half or imperfectly transparent; translucent.
Semidiatessaron (n.) An imperfect or diminished fourth.
Semiditone (n.) A lesser third, having its terms as 6 to 5; a hemiditone.
Semidiurnal (a.) Pertaining to, or accomplished in, half a day, or twelve hours; occurring twice every day.
Semidiurnal (a.) Pertaining to, or traversed in, six hours, or in half the time between the rising and setting of a heavenly body; as, a semidiurnal arc.
Semidome (n.) A roof or ceiling covering a semicircular room or recess, or one of nearly that shape, as the apse of a church, a niche, or the like. It is approximately the quarter of a hollow sphere.
Semidouble (n.) An office or feast celebrated with less solemnity than the double ones. See Double, n., 8.
Semidouble (a.) Having the outermost stamens converted into petals, while the inner ones remain perfect; -- said of a flower.
Semifable (n.) That which is part fable and part truth; a mixture of truth and fable.
Semiflexed (a.) Half bent.
Semifloret (n.) See Semifloscule.
Semifloscular (a.) Semiflosculous.
Semifloscule (n.) A floscule, or florest, with its corolla prolonged into a strap-shaped petal; -- called also semifloret.
Semiflosculous (a.) Having all the florets ligulate, as in the dandelion.
Semifluid (a.) Imperfectly fluid.
Semifluid (n.) A semifluid substance.
Semiform (n.) A half form; an imperfect form.
Semiformed (a.) Half formed; imperfectly formed; as, semiformed crystals.
Semiglutin (n.) A peptonelike body, insoluble in alcohol, formed by boiling collagen or gelatin for a long time in water. Hemicollin, a like body, is also formed at the same time, and differs from semiglutin by being partly soluble in alcohol.
Semihistorical (a.) Half or party historical.
Semihoral (a.) Half-hourly.
Semiindurated (a.) Imperfectly indurated or hardened.
Semilapidified (a.) Imperfectly changed into stone.
Semilens (n.) The half of a lens divided along a plane passing through its axis.
Semilenticular (a.) Half lenticular or convex; imperfectly resembling a lens.
Semiligneous (a.) Half or partially ligneous, as a stem partly woody and partly herbaceous.
Semiliquid (a.) Half liquid; semifluid.
Semiliquidity (n.) The quality or state of being semiliquid; partial liquidity.
Semilogical (a.) Half logical; partly logical; said of fallacies.
Semilor (n.) A yellowish alloy of copper and zinc. See Simplor.
Semilunar (a.) Shaped like a half moon.
Semilunar (n.) The semilunar bone.
Semilunary (a.) Semilunar.
Semilunate (a.) Semilunar.
Semilune (n.) The half of a lune.
Semimetal (n.) An element possessing metallic properties in an inferior degree and not malleable, as arsenic, antimony, bismuth, molybdenum, uranium, etc.
Semimetallic (a.) Of or pertaining to a semimetal; possessing metallic properties in an inferior degree; resembling metal.
Semimonthly (a.) Coming or made twice in a month; as, semimonthly magazine; a semimonthly payment.
Semimonthly (n.) Something done or made every half month; esp., a semimonthly periodical.
Semimonthly (adv.) In a semimonthly manner; at intervals of half a month.
Semiimute (a.) Having the faculty of speech but imperfectly developed or partially lost.
Semimute (n.) A semimute person.
Seminal (a.) Pertaining to, containing, or consisting of, seed or semen; as, the seminal fluid.
Seminal (a.) Contained in seed; holding the relation of seed, source, or first principle; holding the first place in a series of developed results or consequents; germinal; radical; primary; original; as, seminal principles of generation; seminal virtue.
Seminal (n.) A seed.
Seminality (n.) The quality or state of being seminal.
Seminarian (n.) Alt. of Seminarist
Seminarist (n.) A member of, or one educated in, a seminary; specifically, an ecclesiastic educated for the priesthood in a seminary.
Seminaries (pl. ) of Seminary
Seminary (n.) A piece of ground where seed is sown for producing plants for transplantation; a nursery; a seed plat.
Seminary (n.) Hence, the place or original stock whence anything is brought or produced.
Seminary (n.) A place of education, as a scool of a high grade, an academy, college, or university.
Seminary (n.) Seminal state.
Seminary (n.) Fig.: A seed bed; a source.
Seminary (n.) A Roman Catholic priest educated in a foreign seminary; a seminarist.
Seminary (a.) Belonging to seed; seminal.
Seminated (imp. & p. p.) of Seminate
Seminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Seminate
Seminate (v. t.) To sow; to spread; to propagate.
Semination (n.) The act of sowing or spreading.
Semination (n.) Natural dispersion of seeds.
Semined (a.) Thickly covered or sown, as with seeds.
Seminiferous (a.) Seed-bearing; producing seed; pertaining to, or connected with, the formation of semen; as, seminiferous cells or vesicles.
Seminific (a.) Alt. of Semnifical
Semnifical (a.) Forming or producing seed, or the male generative product of animals or of plants.
Seminification (n.) Propagation from seed.
Seminist (n.) A believer in the old theory that the newly created being is formed by the admixture of the seed of the male with the supposed seed of the female.
Seminoles (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians who formerly occupied Florida, where some of them still remain. They belonged to the Creek Confideration.
Seminose (n.) A carbohydrate of the glucose group found in the thickened endosperm of certain seeds, and extracted as yellow sirup having a sweetish-bitter taste.
Seminude (a.) Partially nude; half naked.
Seminymph (n.) The pupa of insects which undergo only a slight change in passing to the imago state.
Semioccasionally (adv.) Once in a while; on rare occasions.
Semiofficial (a.) Half official; having some official authority or importance; as, a semiofficial statement.
Semiography () Alt. of Semiological
Semiology () Alt. of Semiological
Semiological () Same as Semeiography, Semeiology, Semeiological.
Semiopacous (a.) Semiopaque.
Semiopal (n.) A variety of opal not possessing opalescence.
Semiopaque (a.) Half opaque; only half transparent.
Semiorbicular (a.) Having the shape of a half orb or sphere.
Semiotic (a.) Same as Semeiotic.
Semiotics (n.) Same as Semeiotics.
Semioval (a.) Half oval.
Semiovate (a.) Half ovate.
Semioxygenated (a.) Combined with oxygen only in part.
Semipagan (a.) Half pagan.
Semipalmate (a.) Alt. of Semipalmated
Semipalmated (a.) Having the anterior toes joined only part way down with a web; half-webbed; as, a semipalmate bird or foot. See Illust. k under Aves.
Semiparabola (n.) One branch of a parabola, being terminated at the principal vertex of the curve.
Semiped (n.) A half foot in poetry.
Semipedal (a.) Containing a half foot.
Semi-Pelagian (n.) A follower of John Cassianus, a French monk (died about 448), who modified the doctrines of Pelagius, by denying human merit, and maintaining the necessity of the Spirit's influence, while, on the other hand, he rejected the Augustinian doctrines of election, the inability of man to do good, and the certain perseverance of the saints.
Semi-Pelagian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Semi-Pelagians, or their tenets.
Semi-Pelagianism (n.) The doctrines or tenets of the Semi-Pelagians.
Semipellucid (a.) Half clear, or imperfectly transparent; as, a semipellucid gem.
Semipellucidity (n.) The qualiti or state of being imperfectly transparent.
Semipenniform (a.) Half or partially penniform; as, a semipenniform muscle.
Semopermanent (n.) Half or partly permanent.
Semiperspicuous (a.) Half transparent; imperfectly clear; semipellucid.
Semiphlogisticated (a.) Partially impregnated with phlogiston.
Semiplume (n.) A feather which has a plumelike web, with the shaft of an ordinary feather.
Semiprecious (a.) Somewhat precious; as, semiprecious stones or metals.
Semiproof (n.) Half proof; evidence from the testimony of a single witness.
Semi pupa (n.) The young of an insect in a stage between the larva and pupa.
Semiquadrate (n.) Alt. of Semiquartile
Semiquartile (n.) An aspect of the planets when distant from each other the half of a quadrant, or forty-five degrees, or one sign and a half.
Semiquaver (n.) A note of half the duration of the quaver; -- now usually called a sixsteenth note.
Semiquintile (n.) An aspect of the planets when distant from each other half of the quintile, or thirty-six degrees.
Semirecondite (a.) Half hidden or half covered; said of the head of an insect when half covered by the shield of the thorax.
Semiring (n.) One of the incomplete rings of the upper part of the bronchial tubes of most birds. The semerings form an essential part of the syrinx, or musical organ, of singing birds.
Semisavage (a.) Half savage.
Semisavage (n.) One who is half savage.
Semi-Saxon (a.) Half Saxon; -- specifically applied to the language intermediate between Saxon and English, belonging to the period 1150-1250.
Semisextile (n.) An aspect of the planets when they are distant from each other the twelfth part of a circle, or thirty degrees.
Semisolid (a.) Partially solid.
Semisoun (n.) A half sound; a low tone.
Semispheric (a.) Alt. of Semispherical
Semispherical (a.) Having the figure of a half sphere.
Semispheroidal (a.) Formed like a half spheroid.
Semisteel (n.) Puddled steel.
Semitae (pl. ) of Semita
Semita (n.) A fasciole of a spatangoid sea urchin.
Semitangent (n.) The tangent of half an arc.
Semite (n.) One belonging to the Semitic race. Also used adjectively.
Semiterete (a.) Half terete.
Semitertian (a.) Having the characteristics of both a tertian and a quotidian intermittent.
Semitertian (n.) An intermittent combining the characteristics of a tertian and a quotidian.
Semitic (a.) Of or pertaining to Shem or his descendants; belonging to that division of the Caucasian race which includes the Arabs, Jews, and related races.
Semitism (n.) A Semitic idiom; a word of Semitic origin.
Semitone (n.) Half a tone; -- the name commonly applied to the smaller intervals of the diatonic scale.
Semitonic (a.) Of or pertaining to a semitone; consisting of a semitone, or of semitones.
Semitransept (n.) The half of a transept; as, the north semitransept of a church.
Semitranslucent (a.) Slightly clear; transmitting light in a slight degree.
Semitransparency (n.) Imperfect or partial transparency.
Semitransparent (a.) Half or imperfectly transparent.
Semiverticillate (a.) Partially verticillate.
Semivif (a.) Only half alive.
Semivitreous (a.) Partially vitreous.
Semivitrification (n.) The quality or state of being semivitrified.
Semivitrification (n.) A substance imperfectly vitrified.
Semivitrified (a.) Half or imperfectly vitrified; partially converted into glass.
Semivocal (a.) Of or pertaining to a semivowel; half cocal; imperfectly sounding.
Semivowel (n.) A sound intermediate between a vowel and a consonant, or partaking of the nature of both, as in the English w and y.
Semivowel (n.) The sign or letter representing such a sound.
Semiweekly (a.) Coming, or made, or done, once every half week; as, a semiweekly newspaper; a semiweekly trip.
Semiweekly (n.) That which comes or happens once every half week, esp. a semiweekly periodical.
Semiweekly (adv.) At intervals of half a week each.
Semolella (n.) See Semolina.
Semolina (n.) The fine, hard parts of wheat, rounded by the attrition of the millstones, -- used in cookery.
Semolino (n.) Same as Semolina.
Semoule (n.) Same as Semolina.
Sempervirent (a.) Always fresh; evergreen.
Sempervive (n.) The houseleek.
Sempervivum (n.) A genus of fleshy-leaved plants, of which the houseleek (Sempervivum tectorum) is the commonest species.
Sempiternal (a.) Of neverending duration; everlasting; endless; having beginning, but no end.
Sempiternal (a.) Without beginning or end; eternal.
Sempiterne (a.) Sempiternal.
Sempiternity (n.) Future duration without end; the relation or state of being sempiternal.
Sempre (adv.) Always; throughout; as, sempre piano, always soft.
Sempster (n.) A seamster.
Sempstress (n.) A seamstress.
Sempstressy (n.) Seamstressy.
Semster (n.) A seamster.
Semuncia (n.) A Roman coin equivalent to one twenty-fourth part of a Roman pound.
Sen (n.) A Japanese coin, worth about one half of a cent.
Sen (adv., prep., & conj.) Since.
Senary (a.) Of six; belonging to six; containing six.
Senate (n.) An assembly or council having the highest deliberative and legislative functions.
Senate (n.) A body of elders appointed or elected from among the nobles of the nation, and having supreme legislative authority.
Senate (n.) The upper and less numerous branch of a legislature in various countries, as in France, in the United States, in most of the separate States of the United States, and in some Swiss cantons.
Senate (n.) In general, a legislative body; a state council; the legislative department of government.
Senate (n.) The governing body of the Universities of Cambridge and London.
Senate (n.) In some American colleges, a council of elected students, presided over by the president of the college, to which are referred cases of discipline and matters of general concern affecting the students.
Senator (n.) A member of a senate.
Senator (n.) A member of the king's council; a king's councilor.
Senatorial (a.) Of or pertaining to a senator, or a senate; becoming to a senator, or a senate; as, senatorial duties; senatorial dignity.
Senatorial (a.) Entitled to elect a senator, or by senators; as, the senatorial districts of a State.
Senatorially (adv.) In a senatorial manner.
Senatorian (a.) Senatorial.
Senatorious (a.) Senatorial.
Senatorship (n.) The office or dignity of a senator.
Senatusconsult (n.) A decree of the Roman senate.
Sent (imp. & p. p.) of Send
Sending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Send
Send (v. t.) To cause to go in any manner; to dispatch; to commission or direct to go; as, to send a messenger.
Send (v. t.) To give motion to; to cause to be borne or carried; to procure the going, transmission, or delivery of; as, to send a message.
Send (v. t.) To emit; to impel; to cast; to throw; to hurl; as, to send a ball, an arrow, or the like.
Send (v. t.) To cause to be or to happen; to bestow; to inflict; to grant; -- sometimes followed by a dependent proposition.
Send (v. i.) To dispatch an agent or messenger to convey a message, or to do an errand.
Send (v. i.) To pitch; as, the ship sends forward so violently as to endanger her masts.
Send (n.) The impulse of a wave by which a vessel is carried bodily.
Sendal (n.) A light thin stuff of silk.
Sender (n.) One who sends.
Senecas (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians who formerly inhabited a part of Western New York. This tribe was the most numerous and most warlike of the Five Nations.
Senecio (n.) A very large genus of composite plants including the groundsel and the golden ragwort.
Senectitude (n.) Old age.
Senega (n.) Seneca root.
Senegal (n.) Gum senegal. See under Gum.
Senegin (n.) A substance extracted from the rootstock of the Polygala Senega (Seneca root), and probably identical with polygalic acid.
Senescence (n.) The state of growing old; decay by time.
Senescent (a.) Growing old; decaying with the lapse of time.
Seneschal (n.) An officer in the houses of princes and dignitaries, in the Middle Ages, who had the superintendence of feasts and domestic ceremonies; a steward. Sometimes the seneschal had the dispensing of justice, and was given high military commands.
Seneschalship (n.) The office, dignity, or jurisdiction of a seneschal.
Senge (v. t.) To singe.
Sengreen (n.) The houseleek.
Senile (a.) Of or pertaining to old age; proceeding from, or characteristic of, old age; affected with the infirmities of old age; as, senile weakness.
Senility (n.) The quality or state of being senile; old age.
Senior (a.) More advanced than another in age; prior in age; elder; hence, more advanced in dignity, rank, or office; superior; as, senior member; senior counsel.
Senior (a.) Belonging to the final year of the regular course in American colleges, or in professional schools.
Senior (n.) A person who is older than another; one more advanced in life.
Senior (n.) One older in office, or whose entrance upon office was anterior to that of another; one prior in grade.
Senior (n.) An aged person; an older.
Senior (n.) One in the fourth or final year of his collegiate course at an American college; -- originally called senior sophister; also, one in the last year of the course at a professional schools or at a seminary.
Seniority (n.) The quality or state of being senior.
Seniorize (v. i.) To exercise authority; to rule; to lord it.
Seniory (n.) Seniority.
Senna (n.) The leaves of several leguminous plants of the genus Cassia. (C. acutifolia, C. angustifolia, etc.). They constitute a valuable but nauseous cathartic medicine.
Senna (n.) The plants themselves, native to the East, but now cultivated largely in the south of Europe and in the West Indies.
Sennachy (n.) See Seannachie.
Sennet (n.) A signal call on a trumpet or cornet for entrance or exit on the stage.
Sennet (n.) The barracuda.
Sennight (n.) The space of seven nights and days; a week.
Sennit (n.) A braided cord or fabric formed by plaiting together rope yarns or other small stuff.
Sennit (n.) Plaited straw or palm leaves for making hats.
Senocular (a.) Having six eyes.
Senonian (a.) In european geology, a name given to the middle division of the Upper Cretaceous formation.
Seor (n.) A Spanish title of courtesy corresponding to the English Mr. or Sir; also, a gentleman.
Seora (n.) A Spanish title of courtesy given to a lady; Mrs.; Madam; also, a lady.
Seorita (n.) A Spanish title of courtesy given to a young lady; Miss; also, a young lady.
Sens (adv.) Since.
Sensated (imp. & p. p.) of Sensate
Sensating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sensate
Sensate (v. t.) To feel or apprehend more or less distinctly through a sense, or the senses; as, to sensate light, or an odor.
Sensate (a.) Alt. of Sensated
Sensated (a.) Felt or apprehended through a sense, or the senses.
Sensation (n.) An impression, or the consciousness of an impression, made upon the central nervous organ, through the medium of a sensory or afferent nerve or one of the organs of sense; a feeling, or state of consciousness, whether agreeable or disagreeable, produced either by an external object (stimulus), or by some change in the internal state of the body.
Sensation (n.) A purely spiritual or psychical affection; agreeable or disagreeable feelings occasioned by objects that are not corporeal or material.
Sensation (n.) A state of excited interest or feeling, or that which causes it.
Sensational (a.) Of or pertaining to sensation; as, sensational nerves.
Sensational (a.) Of or pertaining to sensationalism, or the doctrine that sensation is the sole origin of knowledge.
Sensational (a.) Suited or intended to excite temporarily great interest or emotion; melodramatic; emotional; as, sensational plays or novels; sensational preaching; sensational journalism; a sensational report.
Sensationalism (n.) The doctrine held by Condillac, and by some ascribed to Locke, that our ideas originate solely in sensation, and consist of sensations transformed; sensualism; -- opposed to intuitionalism, and rationalism.
Sensationalism (n.) The practice or methods of sensational writing or speaking; as, the sensationalism of a novel.
Sensationalist (n.) An advocate of, or believer in, philosophical sensationalism.
Sensationalist (n.) One who practices sensational writing or speaking.
Sense (v. t.) A faculty, possessed by animals, of perceiving external objects by means of impressions made upon certain organs (sensory or sense organs) of the body, or of perceiving changes in the condition of the body; as, the senses of sight, smell, hearing, taste, and touch. See Muscular sense, under Muscular, and Temperature sense, under Temperature.
Sense (v. t.) Perception by the sensory organs of the body; sensation; sensibility; feeling.
Sense (v. t.) Perception through the intellect; apprehension; recognition; understanding; discernment; appreciation.
Sense (v. t.) Sound perception and reasoning; correct judgment; good mental capacity; understanding; also, that which is sound, true, or reasonable; rational meaning.
Sense (v. t.) That which is felt or is held as a sentiment, view, or opinion; judgment; notion; opinion.
Sense (v. t.) Meaning; import; signification; as, the true sense of words or phrases; the sense of a remark.
Sense (v. t.) Moral perception or appreciation.
Sense (v. t.) One of two opposite directions in which a line, surface, or volume, may be supposed to be described by the motion of a point, line, or surface.
Sensed (imp. & p. p.) of Sense
Sensing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sense
Sense (v. t.) To perceive by the senses; to recognize.
Senseful (a.) Full of sense, meaning, or reason; reasonable; judicious.
Senseless (a.) Destitute of, deficient in, or contrary to, sense; without sensibility or feeling; unconscious; stupid; foolish; unwise; unreasonable.
Sensibilities (pl. ) of Sensibility
Sensibility (n.) The quality or state of being sensible, or capable of sensation; capacity to feel or perceive.
Sensibility (n.) The capacity of emotion or feeling, as distinguished from the intellect and the will; peculiar susceptibility of impression, pleasurable or painful; delicacy of feeling; quick emotion or sympathy; as, sensibility to pleasure or pain; sensibility to shame or praise; exquisite sensibility; -- often used in the plural.
Sensibility (n.) Experience of sensation; actual feeling.
Sensibility (n.) That quality of an instrument which makes it indicate very slight changes of condition; delicacy; as, the sensibility of a balance, or of a thermometer.
Sensible (a.) Capable of being perceived by the senses; apprehensible through the bodily organs; hence, also, perceptible to the mind; making an impression upon the sense, reason, or understanding; ////// heat; sensible resistance.
Sensible (a.) Having the capacity of receiving impressions from external objects; capable of perceiving by the instrumentality of the proper organs; liable to be affected physsically or mentally; impressible.
Sensible (a.) Hence: Liable to impression from without; easily affected; having nice perception or acute feeling; sensitive; also, readily moved or affected by natural agents; delicate; as, a sensible thermometer.
Sensible (a.) Perceiving or having perception, either by the senses or the mind; cognizant; perceiving so clearly as to be convinced; satisfied; persuaded.
Sensible (a.) Having moral perception; capable of being affected by moral good or evil.
Sensible (a.) Possessing or containing sense or reason; giftedwith, or characterized by, good or common sense; intelligent; wise.
Sensible (n.) Sensation; sensibility.
Sensible (n.) That which impresses itself on the sense; anything perceptible.
Sensible (n.) That which has sensibility; a sensitive being.
Sensibleness (n.) The quality or state of being sensible; sensibility; appreciation; capacity of perception; susceptibility.
Sensibleness (n.) Intelligence; reasonableness; good sense.
Sensibly (adv.) In a sensible manner; so as to be perceptible to the senses or to the mind; appreciably; with perception; susceptibly; sensitively.
Sensibly (adv.) With intelligence or good sense; judiciously.
Sensifacient (a.) Converting into sensation.
Sensiferous (a.) Exciting sensation; conveying sensation.
Sensific (a.) Exciting sensation.
Sensificatory (a.) Susceptible of, or converting into, sensation; as, the sensificatory part of a nervous system.
Sensigenous (a.) Causing or exciting sensation.
Sensism (n.) Same as Sensualism, 2 & 3.
Sensist (n.) One who, in philosophy, holds to sensism.
Sensitive (a.) Having sense of feeling; possessing or exhibiting the capacity of receiving impressions from external objects; as, a sensitive soul.
Sensitive (a.) Having quick and acute sensibility, either to the action of external objects, or to impressions upon the mind and feelings; highly susceptible; easily and acutely affected.
Sensitive (a.) Having a capacity of being easily affected or moved; as, a sensitive thermometer; sensitive scales.
Sensitive (a.) Readily affected or changed by certain appropriate agents; as, silver chloride or bromide, when in contact with certain organic substances, is extremely sensitive to actinic rays.
Sensitive (a.) Serving to affect the sense; sensible.
Sensitive (a.) Of or pertaining to sensation; depending on sensation; as, sensitive motions; sensitive muscular motions excited by irritation.
Sensitivity (n.) The quality or state of being sensitive; -- used chiefly in science and the arts; as, the sensitivity of iodized silver.
Sensitize (v. t.) To render sensitive, or susceptible of being easily acted on by the actinic rays of the sun; as, sensitized paper or plate.
Sensitizer (n.) An agent that sensitizes.
Sensitory (n.) See Sensory.
Sensive (a.) Having sense or sensibility; sensitive.
Sensor (a.) Sensory; as, the sensor nerves.
Sensorial (a.) Of or pertaining to the sensorium; as, sensorial faculties, motions, powers.
Sensoriums (pl. ) of Sensorium
Sensoria (pl. ) of Sensorium
Sensorium (n.) The seat of sensation; the nervous center or centers to which impressions from the external world must be conveyed before they can be perceived; the place where external impressions are localized, and transformed into sensations, prior to being reflected to other parts of the organism; hence, the whole nervous system, when animated, so far as it is susceptible of common or special sensations.
Sensori-volitional (a.) Concerned both in sensation and volition; -- applied to those nerve fibers which pass to and from the cerebro-spinal axis, and are respectively concerned in sensation and volition.
Sensories (pl. ) of Sensery
Sensery (n.) Same as Sensorium.
Sensory (a.) Of or pertaining to the sensorium or sensation; as, sensory impulses; -- especially applied to those nerves and nerve fibers which convey to a nerve center impulses resulting in sensation; also sometimes loosely employed in the sense of afferent, to indicate nerve fibers which convey impressions of any kind to a nerve center.
Sensual (a.) Pertaining to, consisting in, or affecting, the sense, or bodily organs of perception; relating to, or concerning, the body, in distinction from the spirit.
Sensual (a.) Hence, not spiritual or intellectual; carnal; fleshly; pertaining to, or consisting in, the gratification of the senses, or the indulgence of appetites; wordly.
Sensual (a.) Devoted to the pleasures of sense and appetite; luxurious; voluptuous; lewd; libidinous.
Sensual (a.) Pertaining or peculiar to the philosophical doctrine of sensualism.
Sensualism (n.) The condition or character of one who is sensual; subjection to sensual feelings and appetite; sensuality.
Sensualism (n.) The doctrine that all our ideas, or the operations of the understanding, not only originate in sensation, but are transformed sensations, copies or relics of sensations; sensationalism; sensism.
Sensualism (n.) The regarding of the gratification of the senses as the highest good.
Sensualist (n.) One who is sensual; one given to the indulgence of the appetites or senses as the means of happiness.
Sensualist (n.) One who holds to the doctrine of sensualism.
Sensualistic (a.) Sensual.
Sensualistic (a.) Adopting or teaching the doctrines of sensualism.
Sensuality (n.) The quality or state of being sensual; devotedness to the gratification of the bodily appetites; free indulgence in carnal or sensual pleasures; luxuriousness; voluptuousness; lewdness.
Sensualization (n.) The act of sensualizing, or the state of being sensualized.
Sensualized (imp. & p. p.) of Sensualize
Sensualizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sensualize
Sensualize (v. t.) To make sensual; to subject to the love of sensual pleasure; to debase by carnal gratifications; to carnalize; as, sensualized by pleasure.
Sensually (adv.) In a sensual manner.
Sensualness (n.) Sensuality; fleshliness.
Sensuism (n.) Sensualism.
Sensuosity (n.) The quality or state of being sensuous; sensuousness.
Sensuous (a.) Of or pertaining to the senses, or sensible objects; addressing the senses; suggesting pictures or images of sense.
Sensuous (a.) Highly susceptible to influence through the senses.
Sent (v. & n.) See Scent, v. & n.
Sent () obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Send, for sendeth.
Sent () imp. & p. p. of Send.
Sentence (n.) Sense; meaning; significance.
Sentence (n.) An opinion; a decision; a determination; a judgment, especially one of an unfavorable nature.
Sentence (n.) A philosophical or theological opinion; a dogma; as, Summary of the Sentences; Book of the Sentences.
Sentence (n.) In civil and admiralty law, the judgment of a court pronounced in a cause; in criminal and ecclesiastical courts, a judgment passed on a criminal by a court or judge; condemnation pronounced by a judgical tribunal; doom. In common law, the term is exclusively used to denote the judgment in criminal cases.
Sentence (n.) A short saying, usually containing moral instruction; a maxim; an axiom; a saw.
Sentence (n.) A combination of words which is complete as expressing a thought, and in writing is marked at the close by a period, or full point. See Proposition, 4.
Sentenced (imp. & p. p.) of Sentence
Sentencing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sentence
Sentence (v. t.) To pass or pronounce judgment upon; to doom; to condemn to punishment; to prescribe the punishment of.
Sentence (v. t.) To decree or announce as a sentence.
Sentence (v. t.) To utter sententiously.
Sentencer (n.) One who pronounced a sentence or condemnation.
sentential (a.) Comprising sentences; as, a sentential translation.
sentential (a.) Of or pertaining to a sentence, or full period; as, a sentential pause.
Sententially (adv.) In a sentential manner.
Sententiarist (n.) A sententiary.
Sententiary (n.) One who read lectures, or commented, on the Sentences of Peter Lombard, Bishop of Paris (1159-1160), a school divine.
Sententiosity (n.) The quality or state of being sententious.
Sententious (a.) Abounding with sentences, axioms, and maxims; full of meaning; terse and energetic in expression; pithy; as, a sententious style or discourse; sententious truth.
Sententious (a.) Comprising or representing sentences; sentential.
Sentery (n.) A sentry.
Senteur (n.) Scent.
Sentience (n.) Alt. of Sentiency
Sentiency (n.) The quality or state of being sentient; esp., the quality or state of having sensation.
Sentient (a.) Having a faculty, or faculties, of sensation and perception. Specif. (Physiol.), especially sensitive; as, the sentient extremities of nerves, which terminate in the various organs or tissues.
Sentient (n.) One who has the faculty of perception; a sentient being.
Sentiently (adv.) In a sentient or perceptive way.
Sentiment (a.) A thought prompted by passion or feeling; a state of mind in view of some subject; feeling toward or respecting some person or thing; disposition prompting to action or expression.
Sentiment (a.) Hence, generally, a decision of the mind formed by deliberation or reasoning; thought; opinion; notion; judgment; as, to express one's sentiments on a subject.
Sentiment (a.) A sentence, or passage, considered as the expression of a thought; a maxim; a saying; a toast.
Sentiment (a.) Sensibility; feeling; tender susceptibility.
Sentimental (a.) Having, expressing, or containing a sentiment or sentiments; abounding with moral reflections; containing a moral reflection; didactic.
Sentimental (a.) Inclined to sentiment; having an excess of sentiment or sensibility; indulging the sensibilities for their own sake; artificially or affectedly tender; -- often in a reproachful sense.
Sentimental (a.) Addressed or pleasing to the emotions only, usually to the weaker and the unregulated emotions.
Sentimentalism (n.) The quality of being sentimental; the character or behavior of a sentimentalist; sentimentality.
Sentimentalist (n.) One who has, or affects, sentiment or fine feeling.
Sentimentality (n.) The quality or state of being sentimental.
Sentimentalize (v. t.) To regard in a sentimental manner; as, to sentimentalize a subject.
Sentimentalize (v. i.) To think or act in a sentimental manner, or like a sentimentalist; to affect exquisite sensibility.
Sentimentally (adv.) In a sentimental manner.
Sentine (n.) A place for dregs and dirt; a sink; a sewer.
Sentinel (n.) One who watches or guards; specifically (Mil.), a soldier set to guard an army, camp, or other place, from surprise, to observe the approach of danger, and give notice of it; a sentry.
Sentinel (n.) Watch; guard.
Sentinel (n.) A marine crab (Podophthalmus vigil) native of the Indian Ocean, remarkable for the great length of its eyestalks; -- called also sentinel crab.
Sentineled (imp. & p. p.) of Sentinel
Sentinelled () of Sentinel
Sentineling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sentinel
Sentinelling () of Sentinel
Sentinel (v. t.) To watch over like a sentinel.
Sentinel (v. t.) To furnish with a sentinel; to place under the guard of a sentinel or sentinels.
Sentisection (n.) Painful vivisection; -- opposed to callisection.
Sentires (pl. ) of Sentry
Sentry (n.) A soldier placed on guard; a sentinel.
Sentry (n.) Guard; watch, as by a sentinel.
Senza (prep.) Without; as, senza stromenti, without instruments.
Sepal (n.) A leaf or division of the calyx.
Sepaled (a.) Having one or more sepals.
Sepaline (a.) Relating to, or having the nature of, sepals.
Sepalody (n.) The metamorphosis of other floral organs into sepals or sepaloid bodies.
Sepaloid (a.) Like a sepal, or a division of a calyx.
Sepalous (a.) Having, or relating to, sepals; -- used mostly in composition. See under Sepal.
Separability (n.) Quality of being separable or divisible; divisibility; separableness.
Separable (a.) Capable of being separated, disjoined, disunited, or divided; as, the separable parts of plants; qualities not separable from the substance in which they exist.
Separated (imp. & p. p.) of Separate
Separating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Separate
Separate (v. t.) To disunite; to divide; to disconnect; to sever; to part in any manner.
Separate (v. t.) To come between; to keep apart by occupying the space between; to lie between; as, the Mediterranean Sea separates Europe and Africa.
Separate (v. t.) To set apart; to select from among others, as for a special use or service.
Separate (v. i.) To part; to become disunited; to be disconnected; to withdraw from one another; as, the family separated.
Separate (p. a.) Divided from another or others; disjoined; disconnected; separated; -- said of things once connected.
Separate (p. a.) Unconnected; not united or associated; distinct; -- said of things that have not been connected.
Separate (p. a.) Disunited from the body; disembodied; as, a separate spirit; the separate state of souls.
Separatical (a.) Of or pertaining to separatism in religion; schismatical.
Separating (a.) Designed or employed to separate.
Separation (n.) The act of separating, or the state of being separated, or separate.
Separation (n.) Chemical analysis.
Separation (n.) Divorce.
Separation (n.) The operation of removing water from steam.
Separatism (n.) The character or act of a separatist; disposition to withdraw from a church; the practice of so withdrawing.
Separatist (n.) One who withdraws or separates himself; especially, one who withdraws from a church to which he has belonged; a seceder from an established church; a dissenter; a nonconformist; a schismatic; a sectary.
Separatistic (a.) Of or pertaining to separatists; characterizing separatists; schismatical.
Separative (a.) Causing, or being to cause, separation.
Separator (n.) One who, or that which, separates.
Separator (n.) A device for depriving steam of particles of water mixed with it.
Separator (n.) An apparatus for sorting pulverized ores into grades, or separating them from gangue.
Separator (n.) An instrument used for spreading apart the threads of the warp in the loom, etc.
Separatory (a.) Separative.
Separatory (n.) An apparatus used in separating, as a separating funnel.
Separatory (n.) A surgical instrument for separating the pericranium from the cranium.
-trices (pl. ) of Separatrix
-trixes (pl. ) of Separatrix
Separatrix (n.) The decimal point; the dot placed at the left of a decimal fraction, to separate it from the whole number which it follows. The term is sometimes also applied to other marks of separation.
Sepawn (n.) See Supawn.
Sepelible (a.) Admitting of burial.
Sepelition (n.) Burial.
Sephen (n.) A large sting ray of the genus Trygon, especially T. sephen of the Indian Ocean and the Red Sea. The skin is an article of commerce.
Sepias (pl. ) of Sepia
Sepiae (pl. ) of Sepia
Sepia (n.) The common European cuttlefish.
Sepia (n.) A genus comprising the common cuttlefish and numerous similar species. See Illustr. under Cuttlefish.
Sepia (n.) A pigment prepared from the ink, or black secretion, of the sepia, or cuttlefish. Treated with caustic potash, it has a rich brown color; and this mixed with a red forms Roman sepia. Cf. India ink, under India.
Sepia (a.) Of a dark brown color, with a little red in its composition; also, made of, or done in, sepia.
Sepic (a.) Of or pertaining to sepia; done in sepia; as, a sepic drawing.
Sepidaceous (a.) Like or pertaining to the cuttlefishes of the genus Sepia.
Sepiment (n.) Something that separates; a hedge; a fence.
Sepiolite (n.) Meerschaum. See Meerschaum.
Sepiostare (n.) The bone or shell of cuttlefish. See Illust. under Cuttlefish.
Sepon (n.) See Supawn.
Sepose (v. t.) To set apart.
Seposit (v. t.) To set aside; to give up.
Seposition (n.) The act of setting aside, or of giving up.
Sepoy (n.) A native of India employed as a soldier in the service of a European power, esp. of Great Britain; an Oriental soldier disciplined in the European manner.
Seppuku (n.) Same as Hara-kiri.
Sepsin (n.) A soluble poison (ptomaine) present in putrid blood. It is also formed in the putrefaction of proteid matter in general.
Sepsis (n.) The poisoning of the system by the introduction of putrescent material into the blood.
Sept (n.) A clan, tribe, or family, proceeding from a common progenitor; -- used especially of the ancient clans in Ireland.
Septaemia (n.) Septicaemia.
Septal (a.) Of or pertaining to a septum or septa, as of a coral or a shell.
Septane (n.) See Heptane.
Septangle (n.) A figure which has seven angles; a heptagon.
Septangular (a.) Heptagonal.
Septaria (pl. ) of Septarium
Septarium (n.) A flattened concretionary nodule, usually of limestone, intersected within by cracks which are often filled with calcite, barite, or other minerals.
Septate (a.) Divided by partition or partitions; having septa; as, a septate pod or shell.
September (n.) The ninth month of the year, containing thurty days.
Septemberer (n.) A Setembrist.
Septembrist (n.) An agent in the massacres in Paris, committed in patriotic frenzy, on the 22d of September, 1792.
Septemfluous (a.) Flowing sevenfold; divided into seven streams or currents.
Septempartite (a.) Divided nearly to the base into seven parts; as, a septempartite leaf.
Septemtrioun (n.) Septentrion.
Septemvirs (pl. ) of Septemvir
Septemviri (pl. ) of Septemvir
Septemvir (n.) One of a board of seven men associated in some office.
Septemvirate (n.) The office of septemvir; a government by septimvirs.
Septenary (a.) Consisting of, or relating to, seven; as, a septenary number.
Septenary (a.) Lasting seven years; continuing seven years.
Septenary (n.) The number seven.
Septenate (a.) Having parts in sevens; heptamerous.
Septennate (n.) A period of seven years; as, the septennate during which the President of the French Republic holds office.
Septennial (a.) Lasting or continuing seven years; as, septennial parliaments.
Septennial (a.) Happening or returning once in every seven years; as, septennial elections in England.
Septennially (adv.) Once in seven years.
Septentrial (a.) Septentrional.
Septentrio (n.) The constellation Ursa Major.
Septentrion (n.) The north or northern regions.
Septentrion (a.) Alt. of Septentrional
Septentrional (a.) Of or pertaining to the north; northern.
Septentrionality (n.) Northerliness.
Septentrionally (adv.) Northerly.
Septentrionate (v. i.) To tend or point toward the north; to north.
Septet (n.) Alt. of Septette
Septette (n.) A set of seven persons or objects; as, a septet of singers.
Septette (n.) A musical composition for seven instruments or seven voices; -- called also septuor.
Septfoil (n.) A European herb, the tormentil. See Tormentil.
Septfoil (n.) An ornamental foliation having seven lobes. Cf. Cinquefoil, Quarterfoil, and Trefoil.
Septfoil (n.) A typical figure, consisting of seven equal segments of a circle, used to denote the gifts of the Holy Chost, the seven sacraments as recognized by the Roman Catholic Church, etc.
Septi- () A combining form meaning seven; as, septifolious, seven-leaved; septi-lateral, seven-sided.
Septic (a.) Of the seventh degree or order.
Septic (n.) A quantic of the seventh degree.
Septic (a.) Alt. of Septical
Septical (a.) Having power to promote putrefaction.
Septic (n.) A substance that promotes putrefaction.
Septicaemia (n.) A poisoned condition of the blood produced by the absorption into it of septic or putrescent material; blood poisoning. It is marked by chills, fever, prostration, and inflammation of the different serous membranes and of the lungs, kidneys, and other organs.
Septically (adv.) In a septic manner; in a manner tending to promote putrefaction.
Septicidal (a.) Dividing the partitions; -- said of a method of dehiscence in which a pod splits through the partitions and is divided into its component carpels.
Septicity (n.) Tendency to putrefaction; septic quality.
Septifarious (a.) Turned in seven different ways.
Septiferous (a.) Bearing a partition; -- said of the valves of a capsule.
Septiferous (a.) Conveying putrid poison; as, the virulence of septiferous matter.
Septifluous (a.) Flowing in seven streams; septemfluous.
Septifolious (a.) Having seven leaves.
Septiform (a.) Having the form of a septum.
Septifragal (a.) Breaking from the partitions; -- said of a method of dehiscence in which the valves of a pod break away from the partitions, and these remain attached to the common axis.
Septilateral (a.) Having seven sides; as, a septilateral figure.
Septillion (n.) According to the French method of numeration (which is followed also in the United States), the number expressed by a unit with twenty-four ciphers annexed. According to the English method, the number expressed by a unit with forty-two ciphers annexed. See Numeration.
Septimole (n.) A group of seven notes to be played in the time of four or six.
Septinsular (a.) Consisting of seven islands; as, the septinsular republic of the Ionian Isles.
Septisyllable (n.) A word of seven syllables.
Septoic (a.) See Heptoic.
Septomaxillary (a.) Of or pertaining to the nasal septum and the maxilla; situated in the region of these parts.
Septomaxillary (n.) A small bone between the nasal septum and the maxilla in many reptiles and amphibians.
Septuagenarian (n.) A person who is seventy years of age; a septuagenary.
Septuagenary (a.) Consisting of seventy; also, seventy years old.
Septuagenary (n.) A septuagenarian.
Septuagesima (n.) The third Sunday before Lent; -- so called because it is about seventy days before Easter.
Septuagesimal (a.) Consisting of seventy days, years, etc.; reckoned by seventies.
Septuagint (n.) A Greek version of the Old Testament; -- so called because it was believed to be the work of seventy (or rather of seventy-two) translators.
Septuary (n.) Something composed of seven; a week.
Septulate (a.) Having imperfect or spurious septa.
Septula (pl. ) of Septulum
Septulum (n.) A little septum; a division between small cavities or parts.
Septa (pl. ) of Septum
Septum (n.) A wall separating two cavities; a partition; as, the nasal septum.
Septum (n.) A partition that separates the cells of a fruit.
Septum (n.) One of the radial calcareous plates of a coral.
Septum (n.) One of the transverse partitions dividing the shell of a mollusk, or of a rhizopod, into several chambers. See Illust. under Nautilus.
Septum (n.) One of the transverse partitions dividing the body cavity of an annelid.
Septuor (n.) A septet.
Septuple (a.) Seven times as much; multiplied by seven; sevenfold.
Septupled (imp. & p. p.) of Septuple
Septupling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Septuple
Septuple (v. t.) To multiply by seven; to make sevenfold.
Sepulcher (n.) Alt. of Sepulchre
Sepulchre (n.) The place in which the dead body of a human being is interred, or a place set apart for that purpose; a grave; a tomb.
Sepulchered (imp. & p. p.) of Sepulchre
Sepulchred () of Sepulchre
Sepulchering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sepulchre
Sepulchring () of Sepulchre
Sepulcher (v. t.) Alt. of Sepulchre
Sepulchre (v. t.) To bury; to inter; to entomb; as, obscurely sepulchered.
Sepulchral (a.) Of or pertaining to burial, to the grave, or to monuments erected to the memory of the dead; as, a sepulchral stone; a sepulchral inscription.
Sepulchral (a.) Unnaturally low and grave; hollow in tone; -- said of sound, especially of the voice.
Sepulture (n.) The act of depositing the dead body of a human being in the grave; burial; interment.
Sepulture (n.) A sepulcher; a grave; a place of burial.
Sequacious (a.) Inclined to follow a leader; following; attendant.
Sequacious (a.) Hence, ductile; malleable; pliant; manageable.
Sequacious (a.) Having or observing logical sequence; logically consistent and rigorous; consecutive in development or transition of thought.
Sequaciousness (n.) Quality of being sequacious.
Sequacity (n.) Quality or state of being sequacious; sequaciousness.
Sequel (n.) That which follows; a succeeding part; continuation; as, the sequel of a man's advantures or history.
Sequel (n.) Consequence; event; effect; result; as, let the sun cease, fail, or swerve, and the sequel would be ruin.
Sequel (n.) Conclusion; inference.
Sequelae (pl. ) of Sequela
Sequela (n.) One who, or that which, follows.
Sequela (n.) An adherent, or a band or sect of adherents.
Sequela (n.) That which follows as the logical result of reasoning; inference; conclusion; suggestion.
Sequela (n.) A morbid phenomenon left as the result of a disease; a disease resulting from another.
Sequence (n.) The state of being sequent; succession; order of following; arrangement.
Sequence (n.) That which follows or succeeds as an effect; sequel; consequence; result.
Sequence (n.) Simple succession, or the coming after in time, without asserting or implying causative energy; as, the reactions of chemical agents may be conceived as merely invariable sequences.
Sequence (n.) Any succession of chords (or harmonic phrase) rising or falling by the regular diatonic degrees in the same scale; a succession of similar harmonic steps.
Sequence (n.) A melodic phrase or passage successively repeated one tone higher; a rosalia.
Sequence (n.) A hymn introduced in the Mass on certain festival days, and recited or sung immediately before the gospel, and after the gradual or introit, whence the name.
Sequence (n.) Three or more cards of the same suit in immediately consecutive order of value; as, ace, king, and queen; or knave, ten, nine, and eight.
Sequence (n.) All five cards, of a hand, in consecutive order as to value, but not necessarily of the same suit; when of one suit, it is called a sequence flush.
Sequent (a.) Following; succeeding; in continuance.
Sequent (a.) Following as an effect; consequent.
Sequent (n.) A follower.
Sequent (n.) That which follows as a result; a sequence.
Sequential (a.) Succeeding or following in order.
Sequestered (imp. & p. p.) of Sequester
Sequestering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sequester
Sequester (v. t.) To separate from the owner for a time; to take from parties in controversy and put into the possession of an indifferent person; to seize or take possession of, as property belonging to another, and hold it till the profits have paid the demand for which it is taken, or till the owner has performed the decree of court, or clears himself of contempt; in international law, to confiscate.
Sequester (v. t.) To cause (one) to submit to the process of sequestration; to deprive (one) of one's estate, property, etc.
Sequester (v. t.) To set apart; to put aside; to remove; to separate from other things.
Sequester (v. t.) To cause to retire or withdraw into obscurity; to seclude; to withdraw; -- often used reflexively.
Sequester (v. i.) To withdraw; to retire.
Sequester (v. i.) To renounce (as a widow may) any concern with the estate of her husband.
Sequester (n.) Sequestration; separation.
Sequester (n.) A person with whom two or more contending parties deposit the subject matter of the controversy; one who mediates between two parties; a mediator; an umpire or referee.
Sequester (n.) Same as Sequestrum.
Sequestered (a.) Retired; secluded.
Sequestrable (a.) Capable of being sequestered; subject or liable to sequestration.
Sequestral (a.) Of or pertaining to a sequestrum.
Sequestrated (imp. & p. p.) of Sequestrate
Sequestrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sequestrate
Sequestrate (v. t.) To sequester.
Seguestration (n.) The act of separating, or setting aside, a thing in controversy from the possession of both the parties that contend for it, to be delivered to the one adjudged entitled to it. It may be voluntary or involuntary.
Seguestration (n.) A prerogative process empowering certain commissioners to take and hold a defendant's property and receive the rents and profits thereof, until he clears himself of a contempt or performs a decree of the court.
Seguestration (n.) A kind of execution for a rent, as in the case of a beneficed clerk, of the profits of a benefice, till he shall have satisfied some debt established by decree; the gathering up of the fruits of a benefice during a vacancy, for the use of the next incumbent; the disposing of the goods, by the ordinary, of one who is dead, whose estate no man will meddle with.
Seguestration (n.) The seizure of the property of an individual for the use of the state; particularly applied to the seizure, by a belligerent power, of debts due from its subjects to the enemy.
Seguestration (n.) The state of being separated or set aside; separation; retirement; seclusion from society.
Seguestration (n.) Disunion; disjunction.
Sequestrator (n.) One who sequesters property, or takes the possession of it for a time, to satisfy a demand out of its rents or profits.
Sequestrator (n.) One to whom the keeping of sequestered property is committed.
Sequestra (pl. ) of Sequestrum
Sequestrum (n.) A portion of dead bone which becomes separated from the sound portion, as in necrosis.
Sequin (n.) An old gold coin of Italy and Turkey. It was first struck at Venice about the end of the 13th century, and afterward in the other Italian cities, and by the Levant trade was introduced into Turkey. It is worth about 9s. 3d. sterling, or about $2.25. The different kinds vary somewhat in value.
Sequoia (n.) A genus of coniferous trees, consisting of two species, Sequoia Washingtoniana, syn. S. gigantea, the "big tree" of California, and S. sempervirens, the redwood, both of which attain an immense height.
Sequoiene (n.) A hydrocarbon (C13H10) obtained in white fluorescent crystals, in the distillation products of the needles of the California "big tree" (Sequoia gigantea).
Seraglio (n.) An inclosure; a place of separation.
Seraglio (n.) The palace of the Grand Seignior, or Turkish sultan, at Constantinople, inhabited by the sultan himself, and all the officers and dependents of his court. In it are also kept the females of the harem.
Seraglio (n.) A harem; a place for keeping wives or concubines; sometimes, loosely, a place of licentious pleasure; a house of debauchery.
Serai (n.) A palace; a seraglio; also, in the East, a place for the accommodation of travelers; a caravansary, or rest house.
Seralbumen (n.) Serum albumin.
Serang (n.) The boatswain of a Lascar or East Ondian crew.
Serape (n.) A blanket or shawl worn as an outer garment by the Spanish Americans, as in Mexico.
Seraphs (pl. ) of Seraph
Seraphim (pl. ) of Seraph
Seraph (n.) One of an order of celestial beings, each having three pairs of wings. In ecclesiastical art and in poetry, a seraph is represented as one of a class of angels.
Seraphic (a.) Alt. of Seraphical
Seraphical (a.) Of or pertaining to a seraph; becoming, or suitable to, a seraph; angelic; sublime; pure; refined.
Seraphicism (n.) The character, quality, or state of a seraph; seraphicalness.
Seraphim (n.) The Hebrew plural of Seraph. Cf. Cherubim.
Seraphina (n.) A seraphine.
Seraphine (n.) A wind instrument whose sounding parts are reeds, consisting of a thin tongue of brass playing freely through a slot in a plate. It has a case, like a piano, and is played by means of a similar keybord, the bellows being worked by the foot. The melodeon is a portable variety of this instrument.
Serapis (n.) An Egyptian deity, at first a symbol of the Nile, and so of fertility; later, one of the divinities of the lower world. His worship was introduced into Greece and Rome.
Seraskier (n.) A general or commander of land forces in the Turkish empire; especially, the commander-in-chief of minister of war.
Seraskierate (n.) The office or authority of a seraskier.
Serbonian (a.) Relating to the lake of Serbonis in Egypt, which by reason of the sand blowing into it had a deceptive appearance of being solid land, but was a bog.
Sere (a.) Dry; withered. Same as Sear.
Sere (n.) Claw; talon.
Serein (n.) A mist, or very fine rain, which sometimes falls from a clear sky a few moments after sunset.
Serenade (n.) Music sung or performed in the open air at nights; -- usually applied to musical entertainments given in the open air at night, especially by gentlemen, in a spirit of gallantry, under the windows of ladies.
Serenade (n.) A piece of music suitable to be performed at such times.
Serenaded (imp. & p. p.) of Serenade
Serenading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Serenade
Serenade (v. t.) To entertain with a serenade.
Serenade (v. i.) To perform a serenade.
Serenader (n.) One who serenades.
Serenata (n.) Alt. of Serenate
Serenate (n.) A piece of vocal music, especially one on an amoreus subject; a serenade.
Serene (a.) Bright; clear; unabscured; as, a serene sky.
Serene (a.) Calm; placid; undisturbed; unruffled; as, a serene aspect; a serene soul.
Serene (n.) Serenity; clearness; calmness.
Serene (n.) Evening air; night chill.
Serene (v. t.) To make serene.
Serenely (adv.) In a serene manner; clearly.
Serenely (adv.) With unruffled temper; coolly; calmly.
Sereneness (n.) Serenity.
Serenitude (n.) Serenity.
Serenity (n.) The quality or state of being serene; clearness and calmness; quietness; stillness; peace.
Serenity (n.) Calmness of mind; eveness of temper; undisturbed state; coolness; composure.
Serf (v. t.) A servant or slave employed in husbandry, and in some countries attached to the soil and transferred with it, as formerly in Russia.
Serfage (n.) Alt. of Serfdom
Serfdom (n.) The state or condition of a serf.
Serfhood (n.) Alt. of Serfism
Serfism (n.) Serfage.
Serge (n.) A woolen twilled stuff, much used as material for clothing for both sexes.
Serge (n.) A large wax candle used in the ceremonies of various churches.
Sergeancies (pl. ) of Sergeancy
Sergeancy (n.) The office of a sergeant; sergeantship.
Sergeant (n.) Formerly, in England, an officer nearly answering to the more modern bailiff of the hundred; also, an officer whose duty was to attend on the king, and on the lord high steward in court, to arrest traitors and other offenders. He is now called sergeant-at-arms, and two of these officers, by allowance of the sovereign, attend on the houses of Parliament (one for each house) to execute their commands, and another attends the Court Chancery.
Sergeant (n.) In a company, battery, or troop, a noncommissioned officer next in rank above a corporal, whose duty is to instruct recruits in discipline, to form the ranks, etc.
Sergeant (n.) A lawyer of the highest rank, answering to the doctor of the civil law; -- called also serjeant at law.
Sergeant (n.) A title sometimes given to the servants of the sovereign; as, sergeant surgeon, that is, a servant, or attendant, surgeon.
Sergeant (n.) The cobia.
Sergeantcy (n.) Same as Sergeancy.
Sergeantry (n.) See Sergeanty.
Sergeantship (n.) The office of sergeant.
Sergeanty (n.) Tenure of lands of the crown by an honorary kind of service not due to any lord, but to the king only.
Serial (a.) Of or pertaining to a series; consisting of a series; appearing in successive parts or numbers; as, a serial work or publication.
Serial (a.) Of or pertaining to rows.
Serial (n.) A publication appearing in a series or succession of part; a tale, or other writing, published in successive numbers of a periodical.
Seriality (n.) The quality or state of succession in a series; sequence.
Serially (adv.) In a series, or regular order; in a serial manner; as, arranged serially; published serially.
Seriate (a.) Arranged in a series or succession; pertaining to a series.
Seriatim (adv.) In regular order; one after the other; severally.
Seriation (n.) Arrangement or position in a series.
Sericeous (a.) Of or pertaining to silk; consisting of silk; silky.
Sericeous (a.) Covered with very soft hairs pressed close to the surface; as, a sericeous leaf.
Sericeous (a.) Having a silklike luster, usually due to fine, close hairs.
Sericin (n.) A gelatinous nitrogenous material extracted from crude silk and other similar fiber by boiling water; -- called also silk gelatin.
Sericite (n.) A kind of muscovite occuring in silky scales having a fibrous structure. It is characteristic of sericite schist.
Sericterium (n.) A silk gland, as in the silkworms.
Sericulture (n.) The raising of silkworms.
Serie (n.) Series.
Seriema (n.) A large South American bird (Dicholophus, / Cariama cristata) related to the cranes. It is often domesticated. Called also cariama.
Series (n.) A number of things or events standing or succeeding in order, and connected by a like relation; sequence; order; course; a succession of things; as, a continuous series of calamitous events.
Series (n.) Any comprehensive group of animals or plants including several subordinate related groups.
Series (n.) An indefinite number of terms succeeding one another, each of which is derived from one or more of the preceding by a fixed law, called the law of the series; as, an arithmetical series; a geometrical series.
Serin (n.) A European finch (Serinus hortulanus) closely related to the canary.
Serine (n.) A white crystalline nitrogenous substance obtained by the action of dilute sulphuric acid on silk gelatin.
Serio-comic (a.) Alt. of Serio-comical
Serio-comical (a.) Having a mixture of seriousness and sport; serious and comical.
Serious (a.) Grave in manner or disposition; earnest; thoughtful; solemn; not light, gay, or volatile.
Serious (a.) Really intending what is said; being in earnest; not jesting or deceiving.
Serious (a.) Important; weighty; not trifling; grave.
Serious (a.) Hence, giving rise to apprehension; attended with danger; as, a serious injury.
Seriph (n.) See Ceriph.
Serjeant () Alt. of Serjeantcy
Serjeantcy () See Sergeant, Sergeantcy, etc.
Sermocination (n.) The making of speeches or sermons; sermonizing.
Sermocinator (n.) One who makes sermons or speeches.
Sermon (n.) A discourse or address; a talk; a writing; as, the sermons of Chaucer.
Sermon (n.) Specifically, a discourse delivered in public, usually by a clergyman, for the purpose of religious instruction and grounded on some text or passage of Scripture.
Sermon (n.) Hence, a serious address; a lecture on one's conduct or duty; an exhortation or reproof; a homily; -- often in a depreciatory sense.
Sermon (v. i.) To speak; to discourse; to compose or deliver a sermon.
Sermon (v. t.) To discourse to or of, as in a sermon.
Sermon (v. t.) To tutor; to lecture.
Sermoneer (n.) A sermonizer.
Sermoner (n.) A preacher; a sermonizer.
Sermonet (n.) A short sermon.
Sermonic (a.) Alt. of Sermonical
Sermonical (a.) Like, or appropriate to, a sermon; grave and didactic.
Sermoning (n.) The act of discoursing; discourse; instruction; preaching.
Sermonish (a.) Resembling a sermon.
Sermonist (n.) See Sermonizer.
Sermonized (imp. & p. p.) of Sermonize
Sermonizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sermonize
Sermonize (v. i.) To compose or write a sermon or sermons; to preach.
Sermonize (v. i.) To inculcate rigid rules.
Sermonize (v. t.) To preach or discourse to; to affect or influence by means of a sermon or of sermons.
Sermonizer (n.) One who sermonizes.
Serolin (n.) A peculiar fatty substance found in the blood, probably a mixture of fats, cholesterin, etc.
Serolin (n.) A body found in fecal matter and thought to be formed in the intestines from the cholesterin of the bile; -- called also stercorin, and stercolin.
Seron (n.) Alt. of Seroon
Seroon (n.) Same as Ceroon.
Serose (a.) Serous.
Serosity (n.) The quality or state of being serous.
Serosity (n.) A thin watery animal fluid, as synovial fluid and pericardial fluid.
Serotine (n.) The European long-eared bat (Vesperugo serotinus).
Serotinous (a.) Appearing or blossoming later in the season than is customary with allied species.
Serous (a.) Thin; watery; like serum; as the serous fluids.
Serous (a.) Of or pertaining to serum; as, the serous glands, membranes, layers. See Serum.
Serow (n.) Alt. of Surrow
Surrow (n.) The thar.
Serpens (n.) A constellation represented as a serpent held by Serpentarius.
Serpent (n.) Any reptile of the order Ophidia; a snake, especially a large snake. See Illust. under Ophidia.
Serpent (n.) Fig.: A subtle, treacherous, malicious person.
Serpent (n.) A species of firework having a serpentine motion as it passess through the air or along the ground.
Serpent (n.) The constellation Serpens.
Serpent (n.) A bass wind instrument, of a loud and coarse tone, formerly much used in military bands, and sometimes introduced into the orchestra; -- so called from its form.
Serpented (imp. & p. p.) of Serpent
Serpenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Serpent
Serpent (v. i.) To wind like a serpent; to crook about; to meander.
Serpent (v. t.) To wind; to encircle.
Serpentaria (a.) The fibrous aromatic root of the Virginia snakeroot (Aristolochia Serpentaria).
Serpentarius (n.) A constellation on the equator, lying between Scorpio and Hercules; -- called also Ophiuchus.
Serpentiform (a.) Having the form of a serpent.
Serpentigenous (a.) Bred of a serpent.
Serpentine (a.) Resembling a serpent; having the shape or qualities of a serpent; subtle; winding or turning one way and the other, like a moving serpent; anfractuous; meandering; sinuous; zigzag; as, serpentine braid.
Serpentine (n.) A mineral or rock consisting chiefly of the hydrous silicate of magnesia. It is usually of an obscure green color, often with a spotted or mottled appearance resembling a serpent's skin. Precious, or noble, serpentine is translucent and of a rich oil-green color.
Serpentine (n.) A kind of ancient cannon.
Serpentine (v. i.) To serpentize.
Serpentinely (adv.) In a serpentine manner.
Serpentinian (n.) See 2d Ophite.
Serpentinize (v. t.) To convert (a magnesian silicate) into serpentine.
Serpentinous (a.) Relating to, or like, serpentine; as, a rock serpentinous in character.
Serpentize (v. i.) To turn or bend like a serpent, first in one direction and then in the opposite; to meander; to wind; to serpentine.
Serpentry (n.) A winding like a serpent's.
Serpentry (n.) A place inhabited or infested by serpents.
Serpent-tongued (a.) Having a forked tongue, like a serpent.
Serpet (n.) A basket.
Serpette (n.) A pruning knife with a curved blade.
Serpiginous (a.) Creeping; -- said of lesions which heal over one portion while continuing to advance at another.
Serpigo (n.) A dry, scaly eruption on the skin; especially, a ringworm.
Serpolet (n.) Wild thyme.
Serpulae (pl. ) of Serpula
Serpulas (pl. ) of Serpula
Serpula (n.) Any one of numerous species of tubicolous annelids of the genus Serpula and allied genera of the family Serpulidae. They secrete a calcareous tube, which is usually irregularly contorted, but is sometimes spirally coiled. The worm has a wreath of plumelike and often bright-colored gills around its head, and usually an operculum to close the aperture of its tube when it retracts.
Serpulian (n.) Alt. of Serpulidan
Serpulidan (n.) A serpula.
Serpulite (n.) A fossil serpula shell.
Serr (v. t.) To crowd, press, or drive together.
Serranoid (n.) Any fish of the family Serranidae, which includes the striped bass, the black sea bass, and many other food fishes.
Serranoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Serranidae.
Serrate (a.) Alt. of Serrated
Serrated (a.) Notched on the edge, like a saw.
Serrated (a.) Beset with teeth pointing forwards or upwards; as, serrate leaves.
Serration (n.) Condition of being serrate; formation in the shape of a saw.
Serration (n.) One of the teeth in a serrate or serrulate margin.
Serratirostral (a.) Having a toothed bill, like that of a toucan.
Serrator (n.) The ivory gull (Larus eburneus).
Serrature (n.) A notching, like that between the teeth of a saw, in the edge of anything.
Serrature (n.) One of the teeth in a serrated edge; a serration.
Serricated (a.) Covered with fine silky down.
Serricorn (a.) Having serrated antenn/.
Serricorn (n.) Any one of a numerous tribe of beetles (Serricornia). The joints of the antennae are prominent, thus producing a serrate appearance. See Illust. under Antenna.
Serried (a.) Crowded; compact; dense; pressed together.
Serrifera (n. pl.) A division of Hymenoptera comprising the sawflies.
Serrirostres (n. pl.) Same as Lamellirostres.
Serrous (a.) Like the teeth off a saw; jagged.
Serrula (n.) The red-breasted merganser.
Serrulate (a.) Alt. of Serrulated
Serrulated (a.) Finely serrate; having very minute teeth.
Serrulation (n.) The state of being notched minutely, like a fine saw.
Serrulation (n.) One of the teeth in a serrulate margin.
Serried (imp. & p. p.) of Serry
Serrying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Serry
Serry (v. t.) To crowd; to press together.
Sertularia (n.) A genus of delicate branching hydroids having small sessile hydrothecae along the sides of the branches.
Sertularian (n.) Any species of Sertularia, or of Sertularidae, a family of hydroids having branched chitinous stems and simple sessile hydrothecae. Also used adjectively.
Serum (n.) The watery portion of certain animal fluids, as blood, milk, etc.
Serum (n.) A thin watery fluid, containing more or less albumin, secreted by the serous membranes of the body, such as the pericardium and peritoneum.
Servable (a.) Capable of being served.
Servable (a.) Capable of being preserved.
Servage (n.) Serfage; slavery; servitude.
Serval (n.) An African wild cat (Felis serval) of moderate size. It has rather long legs and a tail of moderate length. Its color is tawny, with black spots on the body and rings of black on the tail.
Servaline (a.) Related to, or resembling, the serval.
Servant (n.) One who serves, or does services, voluntarily or on compulsion; a person who is employed by another for menial offices, or for other labor, and is subject to his command; a person who labors or exerts himself for the benefit of another, his master or employer; a subordinate helper.
Servant (n.) One in a state of subjection or bondage.
Servant (n.) A professed lover or suitor; a gallant.
Servant (v. t.) To subject.
Servantess (n.) A maidservant.
Servantry (n.) A body of servants; servants, collectively.
Served (imp. & p. p.) of Serve
Serving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Serve
Serve (v. t.) To work for; to labor in behalf of; to exert one's self continuously or statedly for the benefit of; to do service for; to be in the employment of, as an inferior, domestic, serf, slave, hired assistant, official helper, etc.; specifically, in a religious sense, to obey and worship.
Serve (v. t.) To be subordinate to; to act a secondary part under; to appear as the inferior of; to minister to.
Serve (v. t.) To be suitor to; to profess love to.
Serve (v. t.) To wait upon; to supply the wants of; to attend; specifically, to wait upon at table; to attend at meals; to supply with food; as, to serve customers in a shop.
Serve (v. t.) Hence, to bring forward, arrange, deal, or distribute, as a portion of anything, especially of food prepared for eating; -- often with up; formerly with in.
Serve (v. t.) To perform the duties belonging to, or required in or for; hence, to be of use to; as, a curate may serve two churches; to serve one's country.
Serve (v. t.) To contribute or conduce to; to promote; to be sufficient for; to satisfy; as, to serve one's turn.
Serve (v. t.) To answer or be (in the place of something) to; as, a sofa serves one for a seat and a couch.
Serve (v. t.) To treat; to behave one's self to; to requite; to act toward; as, he served me very ill.
Serve (v. t.) To work; to operate; as, to serve the guns.
Serve (v. t.) To bring to notice, deliver, or execute, either actually or constructively, in such manner as the law requires; as, to serve a summons.
Serve (v. t.) To make legal service opon (a person named in a writ, summons, etc.); as, to serve a witness with a subp/na.
Serve (v. t.) To pass or spend, as time, esp. time of punishment; as, to serve a term in prison.
Serve (v. t.) To copulate with; to cover; as, a horse serves a mare; -- said of the male.
Serve (v. t.) To lead off in delivering (the ball).
Serve (v. t.) To wind spun yarn, or the like, tightly around (a rope or cable, etc.) so as to protect it from chafing or from the weather. See under Serving.
Serve (v. i.) To be a servant or a slave; to be employed in labor or other business for another; to be in subjection or bondage; to render menial service.
Serve (v. i.) To perform domestic offices; to be occupied with household affairs; to prepare and dish up food, etc.
Serve (v. i.) To be in service; to do duty; to discharge the requirements of an office or employment. Specifically, to act in the public service, as a soldier, seaman. etc.
Serve (v. i.) To be of use; to answer a purpose; to suffice; to suit; to be convenient or favorable.
Serve (v. i.) To lead off in delivering the ball.
Server (n.) One who serves.
Server (n.) A tray for dishes; a salver.
Servian (a.) Of or pertaining to Servia, a kingdom of Southern Europe.
Servian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Servia.
Service () Alt. of Service
Service () A name given to several trees and shrubs of the genus Pyrus, as Pyrus domestica and P. torminalis of Europe, the various species of mountain ash or rowan tree, and the American shad bush (see Shad bush, under Shad). They have clusters of small, edible, applelike berries.
Service (n.) The act of serving; the occupation of a servant; the performance of labor for the benefit of another, or at another's command; attendance of an inferior, hired helper, slave, etc., on a superior, employer, master, or the like; also, spiritual obedience and love.
Service (n.) The deed of one who serves; labor performed for another; duty done or required; office.
Service (n.) Office of devotion; official religious duty performed; religious rites appropriate to any event or ceremonial; as, a burial service.
Service (n.) Hence, a musical composition for use in churches.
Service (n.) Duty performed in, or appropriate to, any office or charge; official function; hence, specifically, military or naval duty; performance of the duties of a soldier.
Service (n.) Useful office; advantage conferred; that which promotes interest or happiness; benefit; avail.
Service (n.) Profession of respect; acknowledgment of duty owed.
Service (n.) The act and manner of bringing food to the persons who eat it; order of dishes at table; also, a set or number of vessels ordinarily used at table; as, the service was tardy and awkward; a service of plate or glass.
Service (n.) The act of bringing to notice, either actually or constructively, in such manner as is prescribed by law; as, the service of a subp/na or an attachment.
Service (n.) The materials used for serving a rope, etc., as spun yarn, small lines, etc.
Service (n.) The act of serving the ball.
Service (n.) Act of serving or covering. See Serve, v. t., 13.
Serviceable (a.) Doing service; promoting happiness, interest, advantage, or any good; useful to any end; adapted to any good end use; beneficial; advantageous.
Serviceable (a.) Prepared for rendering service; capable of, or fit for, the performance of duty; hence, active; diligent.
Serviceage (n.) Servitude.
Servient (a.) Subordinate.
Serviette (n.) A table napkin.
Servile (a.) Of or pertaining to a servant or slave; befitting a servant or a slave; proceeding from dependence; hence, meanly submissive; slavish; mean; cringing; fawning; as, servile flattery; servile fear; servile obedience.
Servile (a.) Held in subjection; dependent; enslaved.
Servile (a.) Not belonging to the original root; as, a servile letter.
Servile (a.) Not itself sounded, but serving to lengthen the preceeding vowel, as e in tune.
Servile (n.) An element which forms no part of the original root; -- opposed to radical.
Servilely (adv.) In a servile manner; slavishly.
Servileness (n.) Quality of being servile; servility.
Servility (n.) The quality or state of being servile; servileness.
Serving () a. & n. from Serve.
Servite (n.) One of the order of the Religious Servants of the Holy Virgin, founded in Florence in 1223.
Servifor (n.) One who serves; a servant; an attendant; one who acts under another; a follower or adherent.
Servifor (n.) An undergraduate, partly supported by the college funds, whose duty it formerly was to wait at table. A servitor corresponded to a sizar in Cambridge and Dublin universities.
Servitorship (n.) The office, rank, or condition of a servitor.
Servitude (n.) The state of voluntary or compulsory subjection to a master; the condition of being bound to service; the condition of a slave; slavery; bondage; hence, a state of slavish dependence.
Servitude (n.) Servants, collectively.
Servitude (n.) A right whereby one thing is subject to another thing or person for use or convenience, contrary to the common right.
Serviture (n.) Servants, collectively.
Servitute (n.) Servitude.
Serye (n.) A series.
Sesame (n.) Either of two annual herbaceous plants of the genus Sesamum (S. Indicum, and S. orientale), from the seeds of which an oil is expressed; also, the small obovate, flattish seeds of these plants, sometimes used as food. See Benne.
Sesamoid (a.) Resembling in shape the seeds of sesame.
Sesamoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the sesamoid bones or cartilages; sesamoidal.
Sesamoid (n.) A sesamoid bone or cartilage.
Sesamoidal (a.) Sesamoid.
Sesban (n.) A leguminous shrub (Sesbania aculeata) which furnishes a fiber used for making ropes.
Sesqui- () A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting that three atoms or equivalents of the substance to the name of which it is prefixed are combined with two of some other element or radical; as, sesquibromide, sesquicarbonate, sesquichloride, sesquioxide.
Sesquialter (a.) Sesquialteral.
Sesquialter (n.) Alt. of Sesquialtera
Sesquialtera (n.) A stop on the organ, containing several ranks of pipes which reenforce some of the high harmonics of the ground tone, and make the sound more brilliant.
Sesquialteral (a.) Alt. of Sesquialterate
Sesquialterate (a.) Once and a half times as great as another; having the ratio of one and a half to one.
Sesquialterous (a.) Sesquialteral.
Sesquibasic (a.) Containing, or acting as, a base in the proportions of a sesqui compound.
Sesquiduplicate (a.) Twice and a half as great (as another thing); having the ratio of two and a half to one.
Sesquioxide (n.) An oxide containing three atoms of oxygen with two atoms (or radicals) of some other substance; thus, alumina, Al2O3 is a sesquioxide.
Sesquipedal (a.) Alt. of Sesquipedalian
Sesquipedalian (a.) Measuring or containing a foot and a half; as, a sesquipedalian pygmy; -- sometimes humorously applied to long words.
Sesquipedalianism (n.) Alt. of Sesquipedalism
Sesquipedalism (n.) Sesquipedality.
Sesqyipedality (n.) The quality or condition of being sesquipedal.
Sesqyipedality (n.) The use of sesquipedalian words; style characterized by the use of long words; sesquipedalism.
Sesquiplicate (a.) Subduplicate of the triplicate; -- a term applied to ratios; thus, a and a' are in the sesquiplicate ratio of b and b', when a is to a' as the square root of the cube of b is to the square root of the cube of b', or a:a'::b3:b'3.
Sesquisalt (n.) A salt derived from a sesquioxide base, or made up on the proportions of a sesqui compound.
Sesquisulphide (n.) A sulphide, analogous to a sesquioxide, containing three atoms of sulphur to two of the other ingredient; -- formerly called also sesquisulphuret; as, orpiment, As2S3 is arsenic sesquisulphide.
Sesquitertial (a.) Sesquitertian.
Sesquitertian (a.) Alt. of Sesquitertianal
Sesquitertianal (a.) Having the ratio of one and one third to one (as 4 : 3).
Sesquitone (n.) A minor third, or interval of three semitones.
Sess (v. t.) To lay a tax upon; to assess.
Sess (n.) A tax; an assessment. See Cess.
Sessa (interj.) Hurry; run.
Sessile (a.) Attached without any sensible projecting support.
Sessile (a.) Resting directly upon the main stem or branch, without a petiole or footstalk; as, a sessile leaf or blossom.
Sessile (a.) Permanently attached; -- said of the gonophores of certain hydroids which never became detached.
Sessile-eyed (a.) Having eyes which are not elevated on a stalk; -- opposed to stalk-eyed.
Session (n.) The act of sitting, or the state of being seated.
Session (n.) The actual sitting of a court, council, legislature, etc., or the actual assembly of the members of such a body, for the transaction of business.
Session (n.) Hence, also, the time, period, or term during which a court, council, legislature, etc., meets daily for business; or, the space of time between the first meeting and the prorogation or adjournment; thus, a session of Parliaments is opened with a speech from the throne, and closed by prorogation. The session of a judicial court is called a term.
Sessional (a.) Of or pertaining to a session or sessions.
Sesspool (n.) Same as Cesspool.
Sesterce (n.) A Roman coin or denomination of money, in value the fourth part of a denarius, and originally containing two asses and a half, afterward four asses, -- equal to about two pence sterling, or four cents.
Sestet (n.) A piece of music composed for six voices or six instruments; a sextet; -- called also sestuor.
Sestet (n.) The last six lines of a sonnet.
Sestetto (n.) A sestet.
Sestine (n.) See Sextain.
Sestuor (n.) A sestet.
Set (imp. & p. p.) of Set
Setting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Set
Set (v. t.) To cause to sit; to make to assume a specified position or attitude; to give site or place to; to place; to put; to fix; as, to set a house on a stone foundation; to set a book on a shelf; to set a dish on a table; to set a chest or trunk on its bottom or on end.
Set (v. t.) Hence, to attach or affix (something) to something else, or in or upon a certain place.
Set (v. t.) To make to assume specified place, condition, or occupation; to put in a certain condition or state (described by the accompanying words); to cause to be.
Set (v. t.) To fix firmly; to make fast, permanent, or stable; to render motionless; to give an unchanging place, form, or condition to.
Set (v. t.) To cause to stop or stick; to obstruct; to fasten to a spot; hence, to occasion difficulty to; to embarrass; as, to set a coach in the mud.
Set (v. t.) To fix beforehand; to determine; hence, to make unyielding or obstinate; to render stiff, unpliant, or rigid; as, to set one's countenance.
Set (v. t.) To fix in the ground, as a post or a tree; to plant; as, to set pear trees in an orchard.
Set (v. t.) To fix, as a precious stone, in a border of metal; to place in a setting; hence, to place in or amid something which serves as a setting; as, to set glass in a sash.
Set (v. t.) To render stiff or solid; especially, to convert into curd; to curdle; as, to set milk for cheese.
Set (v. t.) To put into a desired position or condition; to adjust; to regulate; to adapt.
Set (v. t.) To put in order in a particular manner; to prepare; as, to set (that is, to hone) a razor; to set a saw.
Set (v. t.) To extend and bring into position; to spread; as, to set the sails of a ship.
Set (v. t.) To give a pitch to, as a tune; to start by fixing the keynote; as, to set a psalm.
Set (v. t.) To reduce from a dislocated or fractured state; to replace; as, to set a broken bone.
Set (v. t.) To make to agree with some standard; as, to set a watch or a clock.
Set (v. t.) To lower into place and fix solidly, as the blocks of cut stone in a structure.
Set (v. t.) To stake at play; to wager; to risk.
Set (v. t.) To fit with music; to adapt, as words to notes; to prepare for singing.
Set (v. t.) To determine; to appoint; to assign; to fix; as, to set a time for a meeting; to set a price on a horse.
Set (v. t.) To adorn with something infixed or affixed; to stud; to variegate with objects placed here and there.
Set (v. t.) To value; to rate; -- with at.
Set (v. t.) To point out the seat or position of, as birds, or other game; -- said of hunting dogs.
Set (v. t.) To establish as a rule; to furnish; to prescribe; to assign; as, to set an example; to set lessons to be learned.
Set (v. t.) To suit; to become; as, it sets him ill.
Set (v. t.) To compose; to arrange in words, lines, etc.; as, to set type; to set a page.
Set (v. i.) To pass below the horizon; to go down; to decline; to sink out of sight; to come to an end.
Set (v. i.) To fit music to words.
Set (v. i.) To place plants or shoots in the ground; to plant.
Set (v. i.) To be fixed for growth; to strike root; to begin to germinate or form; as, cuttings set well; the fruit has set well (i. e., not blasted in the blossom).
Set (v. i.) To become fixed or rigid; to be fastened.
Set (v. i.) To congeal; to concrete; to solidify.
Set (v. i.) To have a certain direction in motion; to flow; to move on; to tend; as, the current sets to the north; the tide sets to the windward.
Set (v. i.) To begin to move; to go out or forth; to start; -- now followed by out.
Set (v. i.) To indicate the position of game; -- said of a dog; as, the dog sets well; also, to hunt game by the aid of a setter.
Set (v. i.) To apply one's self; to undertake earnestly; -- now followed by out.
Set (v. i.) To fit or suit one; to sit; as, the coat sets well.
Set (a.) Fixed in position; immovable; rigid; as, a set line; a set countenance.
Set (a.) Firm; unchanging; obstinate; as, set opinions or prejudices.
Set (a.) Regular; uniform; formal; as, a set discourse; a set battle.
Set (a.) Established; prescribed; as, set forms of prayer.
Set (a.) Adjusted; arranged; formed; adapted.
Set (n.) The act of setting, as of the sun or other heavenly body; descent; hence, the close; termination.
Set (n.) That which is set, placed, or fixed.
Set (n.) A young plant for growth; as, a set of white thorn.
Set (n.) That which is staked; a wager; a venture; a stake; hence, a game at venture.
Set (n.) Permanent change of figure in consequence of excessive strain, as from compression, tension, bending, twisting, etc.; as, the set of a spring.
Set (n.) A kind of punch used for bending, indenting, or giving shape to, metal; as, a saw set.
Set (n.) A piece placed temporarily upon the head of a pile when the latter cannot be reached by the weight, or hammer, except by means of such an intervening piece.
Set (n.) A short steel spike used for driving the head of a nail below the surface.
Set (n.) A number of things of the same kind, ordinarily used or classed together; a collection of articles which naturally complement each other, and usually go together; an assortment; a suit; as, a set of chairs, of china, of surgical or mathematical instruments, of books, etc.
Set (n.) A number of persons associated by custom, office, common opinion, quality, or the like; a division; a group; a clique.
Set (n.) Direction or course; as, the set of the wind, or of a current.
Set (n.) In dancing, the number of persons necessary to execute a quadrille; also, the series of figures or movements executed.
Set (n.) The deflection of a tooth, or of the teeth, of a saw, which causes the the saw to cut a kerf, or make an opening, wider than the blade.
Set (n.) A young oyster when first attached.
Set (n.) Collectively, the crop of young oysters in any locality.
Set (n.) A series of as many games as may be necessary to enable one side to win six. If at the end of the tenth game the score is a tie, the set is usually called a deuce set, and decided by an application of the rules for playing off deuce in a game. See Deuce.
Set (n.) That dimension of the body of a type called by printers the width.
Setae (pl. ) of Seta
Seta (n.) Any slender, more or less rigid, bristlelike organ or part; as the hairs of a caterpillar, the slender spines of a crustacean, the hairlike processes of a protozoan, the bristles or stiff hairs on the leaves of some plants, or the pedicel of the capsule of a moss.
Seta (n.) One of the movable chitinous spines or hooks of an annelid. They usually arise in clusters from muscular capsules, and are used in locomotion and for defense. They are very diverse in form.
Seta (n.) One of the spinelike feathers at the base of the bill of certain birds.
Setaceous (a.) Set with, or consisting of, bristles; bristly; as, a stiff, setaceous tail.
Setaceous (a.) Bristelike in form or texture; as, a setaceous feather; a setaceous leaf.
Setback (n.) Offset, n., 4.
Setback (n.) A backset; a countercurrent; an eddy.
Setback (n.) A backset; a check; a repulse; a reverse; a relapse.
Setbolt (n.) An iron pin, or bolt, for fitting planks closely together.
Setbolt (n.) A bolt used for forcing another bolt out of its hole.
Setdown (n.) The humbling of a person by act or words, especially by a retort or a reproof; the retort or the reproof which has such effect.
Setee (n.) See 2d Settee.
Seten () obs. imp. pl. of Sit. Sat.
Setewale (n.) See Cetewale.
Set-fair (n.) In plastering, a particularly good troweled surface.
Setfoil (n.) See Septfoil.
Sethen (adv. & conj.) See Since.
Sethic (a.) See Sothic.
Setiferous (a.) Producing, or having one or more, bristles.
Setiform (a.) Having the form or structure of setae.
Setiger (n.) An annelid having setae; a chaetopod.
Setigerous (a.) Covered with bristles; having or bearing a seta or setae; setiferous; as, setigerous glands; a setigerous segment of an annelid; specifically (Bot.), tipped with a bristle.
Setim (n.) See Shittim.
Setiparous (a.) Producing setae; -- said of the organs from which the setae of annelids arise.
Setireme (n.) A swimming leg (of an insect) having a fringe of hairs on the margin.
Setness (n.) The quality or state of being set; formality; obstinacy.
Set-off (n.) That which is set off against another thing; an offset.
Set-off (n.) That which is used to improve the appearance of anything; a decoration; an ornament.
Set-off (n.) A counterclaim; a cross debt or demand; a distinct claim filed or set up by the defendant against the plaintiff's demand.
Set-off (n.) Same as Offset, n., 4.
Set-off (n.) See Offset, 7.
Seton (n.) A few silk threads or horsehairs, or a strip of linen or the like, introduced beneath the skin by a knife or needle, so as to form an issue; also, the issue so formed.
Setose (a.) Alt. of Setous
Setous (a.) Thickly set with bristles or bristly hairs.
Setout (n.) A display, as of plate, equipage, etc.; that which is displayed.
Set-stitched (a.) Stitched according to a formal pattern.
Sett (n.) See Set, n., 2 (e) and 3.
Settee (n.) A long seat with a back, -- made to accommodate several persons at once.
Settee (n.) A vessel with a very long, sharp prow, carrying two or three masts with lateen sails, -- used in the Mediterranean.
Setter (n.) One who, or that which, sets; -- used mostly in composition with a noun, as typesetter; or in combination with an adverb, as a setter on (or inciter), a setter up, a setter forth.
Setter (n.) A hunting dog of a special breed originally derived from a cross between the spaniel and the pointer. Modern setters are usually trained to indicate the position of game birds by standing in a fixed position, but originally they indicated it by sitting or crouching.
Setter (n.) One who hunts victims for sharpers.
Setter (n.) One who adapts words to music in composition.
Setter (n.) An adornment; a decoration; -- with off.
Setter (n.) A shallow seggar for porcelain.
Setter (v. t.) To cut the dewlap (of a cow or an ox), and to insert a seton, so as to cause an issue.
Setterwort (n.) The bear's-foot (Helleborus f/tidus); -- so called because the root was used in settering, or inserting setons into the dewlaps of cattle. Called also pegroots.
Setting (n.) The act of one who, or that which, sets; as, the setting of type, or of gems; the setting of the sun; the setting (hardening) of moist plaster of Paris; the setting (set) of a current.
Setting (n.) The act of marking the position of game, as a setter does; also, hunting with a setter.
Setting (n.) Something set in, or inserted.
Setting (n.) That in which something, as a gem, is set; as, the gold setting of a jeweled pin.
Settle (n.) A seat of any kind.
Settle (n.) A bench; especially, a bench with a high back.
Settle (n.) A place made lower than the rest; a wide step or platform lower than some other part.
Settled (imp. & p. p.) of Settle
Settling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Settle
Settle (n.) To place in a fixed or permanent condition; to make firm, steady, or stable; to establish; to fix; esp., to establish in life; to fix in business, in a home, or the like.
Settle (n.) To establish in the pastoral office; to ordain or install as pastor or rector of a church, society, or parish; as, to settle a minister.
Settle (n.) To cause to be no longer in a disturbed condition; to render quiet; to still; to calm; to compose.
Settle (n.) To clear of dregs and impurities by causing them to sink; to render pure or clear; -- said of a liquid; as, to settle coffee, or the grounds of coffee.
Settle (n.) To restore or bring to a smooth, dry, or passable condition; -- said of the ground, of roads, and the like; as, clear weather settles the roads.
Settle (n.) To cause to sink; to lower; to depress; hence, also, to render close or compact; as, to settle the contents of a barrel or bag by shaking it.
Settle (n.) To determine, as something which is exposed to doubt or question; to free from unscertainty or wavering; to make sure, firm, or constant; to establish; to compose; to quiet; as, to settle the mind when agitated; to settle questions of law; to settle the succession to a throne; to settle an allowance.
Settle (n.) To adjust, as something in discussion; to make up; to compose; to pacify; as, to settle a quarrel.
Settle (n.) To adjust, as accounts; to liquidate; to balance; as, to settle an account.
Settle (n.) Hence, to pay; as, to settle a bill.
Settle (n.) To plant with inhabitants; to colonize; to people; as, the French first settled Canada; the Puritans settled New England; Plymouth was settled in 1620.
Settle (v. i.) To become fixed or permanent; to become stationary; to establish one's self or itself; to assume a lasting form, condition, direction, or the like, in place of a temporary or changing state.
Settle (v. i.) To fix one's residence; to establish a dwelling place or home; as, the Saxons who settled in Britain.
Settle (v. i.) To enter into the married state, or the state of a householder.
Settle (v. i.) To be established in an employment or profession; as, to settle in the practice of law.
Settle (v. i.) To become firm, dry, and hard, as the ground after the effects of rain or frost have disappeared; as, the roads settled late in the spring.
Settle (v. i.) To become clear after being turbid or obscure; to clarify by depositing matter held in suspension; as, the weather settled; wine settles by standing.
Settle (v. i.) To sink to the bottom; to fall to the bottom, as dregs of a liquid, or the sediment of a reserveir.
Settle (v. i.) To sink gradually to a lower level; to subside, as the foundation of a house, etc.
Settle (v. i.) To become calm; to cease from agitation.
Settle (v. i.) To adjust differences or accounts; to come to an agreement; as, he has settled with his creditors.
Settle (v. i.) To make a jointure for a wife.
Settledness (n.) The quality or state of being settled; confirmed state.
Settlement (n.) The act of setting, or the state of being settled.
Settlement (n.) Establishment in life, in business, condition, etc.; ordination or installation as pastor.
Settlement (n.) The act of peopling, or state of being peopled; act of planting, as a colony; colonization; occupation by settlers; as, the settlement of a new country.
Settlement (n.) The act or process of adjusting or determining; composure of doubts or differences; pacification; liquidation of accounts; arrangement; adjustment; as, settlement of a controversy, of accounts, etc.
Settlement (n.) Bestowal, or giving possession, under legal sanction; the act of giving or conferring anything in a formal and permanent manner.
Settlement (n.) A disposition of property for the benefit of some person or persons, usually through the medium of trustees, and for the benefit of a wife, children, or other relatives; jointure granted to a wife, or the act of granting it.
Settlement (n.) That which settles, or is settled, established, or fixed.
Settlement (n.) Matter that subsides; settlings; sediment; lees; dregs.
Settlement (n.) A colony newly established; a place or region newly settled; as, settlement in the West.
Settlement (n.) That which is bestowed formally and permanently; the sum secured to a person; especially, a jointure made to a woman at her marriage; also, in the United States, a sum of money or other property formerly granted to a pastor in additional to his salary.
Settlement (n.) The gradual sinking of a building, whether by the yielding of the ground under the foundation, or by the compression of the joints or the material.
Settlement (n.) Fractures or dislocations caused by settlement.
Settlement (n.) A settled place of abode; residence; a right growing out of residence; legal residence or establishment of a person in a particular parish or town, which entitles him to maintenance if a pauper, and subjects the parish or town to his support.
Settler (n.) One who settles, becomes fixed, established, etc.
Settler (n.) Especially, one who establishes himself in a new region or a colony; a colonist; a planter; as, the first settlers of New England.
Settler (n.) That which settles or finishes; hence, a blow, etc., which settles or decides a contest.
Settler (n.) A vessel, as a tub, in which something, as pulverized ore suspended in a liquid, is allowed to settle.
Settling (n.) The act of one who, or that which, settles; the act of establishing one's self, of colonizing, subsiding, adjusting, etc.
Settling (n.) That which settles at the bottom of a liquid; lees; dregs; sediment.
Set-to (n.) A contest in boxing, in an argument, or the like.
Setulae (pl. ) of Setula
Setula (n.) A small, short hair or bristle; a small seta.
Setule (n.) A setula.
Setulose (a.) Having small bristles or setae.
Setwall (n.) A plant formerly valued for its restorative qualities (Valeriana officinalis, or V. Pyrenaica).
Seven (a.) One more than six; six and one added; as, seven days make one week.
Seven (n.) The number greater by one than six; seven units or objects.
Seven (n.) A symbol representing seven units, as 7, or vii.
Sevenfold (a.) Repeated seven times; having seven thicknesses; increased to seven times the size or amount.
Sevenfold (adv.) Seven times as much or as often.
Sevennight (n.) A week; any period of seven consecutive days and nights. See Sennight.
Sevenscore (n. & a.) Seven times twenty, that is, a hundred and forty.
Seven-shooter (n.) A firearm, esp. a pistol, with seven barrels or chambers for cartridges, or one capable of firing seven shots without reloading.
Seventeen (a.) One more than sixteen; ten and seven added; as, seventeen years.
Seventeen (n.) The number greater by one than sixteen; the sum of ten and seven; seventeen units or objects.
Seventeen (n.) A symbol denoting seventeen units, as 17, or xvii.
Seventeenth (a.) Next in order after the sixteenth; coming after sixteen others.
Seventeenth (a.) Constituting or being one of seventeen equal parts into which anything is divided.
Seventeenth (n.) The next in order after the sixteenth; one coming after sixteen others.
Seventeenth (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by seventeen; one of seventeen equal parts or divisions of one whole.
Seventeenth (n.) An interval of two octaves and a third.
Seventh (a.) Next in order after the sixth;; coming after six others.
Seventh (a.) Constituting or being one of seven equal parts into which anything is divided; as, the seventh part.
Seventh (n.) One next in order after the sixth; one coming after six others.
Seventh (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by seven; one of seven equal parts into which anything is divided.
Seventh (n.) An interval embracing seven diatonic degrees of the scale.
Seventh (n.) A chord which includes the interval of a seventh whether major, minor, or diminished.
Seven-thirties (n. pl.) A name given to three several issues of United States Treasury notes, made during the Civil War, in denominations of $50 and over, bearing interest at the rate of seven and three tenths (thirty hundredths) per cent annually. Within a few years they were all redeemed or funded.
Seventhly (adv.) In the seventh place.
Seventieth (a.) Next in order after the sixty-ninth; as, a man in the seventieth year of his age.
Seventieth (a.) Constituting or being one of seventy equal parts.
Seventieth (n.) One next in order after the sixty-ninth.
Seventieth (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by seventy; one of seventy equal parts or fractions.
Seventy (a.) Seven times ten; one more than sixty-nine.
Seventies (pl. ) of Seventy
Seventy (n.) The sum of seven times ten; seventy units or objects.
Seventy (n.) A symbol representing seventy units, as 70, or lxx.
Seventy-four (n.) A naval vessel carrying seventy-four guns.
Seven-up (n.) The game of cards called also all fours, and old sledge.
Severed (imp. &. p. p.) of Sever
Severing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sever
Sever (v. t.) To separate, as one from another; to cut off from something; to divide; to part in any way, especially by violence, as by cutting, rending, etc.; as, to sever the head from the body.
Sever (v. t.) To cut or break open or apart; to divide into parts; to cut through; to disjoin; as, to sever the arm or leg.
Sever (v. t.) To keep distinct or apart; to except; to exempt.
Sever (v. t.) To disunite; to disconnect; to terminate; as, to sever an estate in joint tenancy.
Sever (v. i.) To suffer disjunction; to be parted, or rent asunder; to be separated; to part; to separate.
Sever (v. i.) To make a separation or distinction; to distinguish.
Severable (a.) Capable of being severed.
Several (a.) Separate; distinct; particular; single.
Several (a.) Diverse; different; various.
Several (a.) Consisting of a number more than two, but not very many; divers; sundry; as, several persons were present when the event took place.
Several (adv.) By itself; severally.
Several (n.) Each particular taken singly; an item; a detail; an individual.
Several (n.) Persons oe objects, more than two, but not very many.
Several (n.) An inclosed or separate place; inclosure.
Severalities (pl. ) of Severality
Severality (n.) Each particular taken singly; distinction.
Severalize (v. t.) To distinguish.
Severally (adv.) Separately; distinctly; apart from others; individually.
Severalty (n.) A state of separation from the rest, or from all others; a holding by individual right.
Severance (n.) The act of severing, or the state of being severed; partition; separation.
Severance (n.) The act of dividing; the singling or severing of two or more that join, or are joined, in one writ; the putting in several or separate pleas or answers by two or more disjointly; the destruction of the unity of interest in a joint estate.
Severe (superl.) Serious in feeeling or manner; sedate; grave; austere; not light, lively, or cheerful.
Severe (superl.) Very strict in judgment, discipline, or government; harsh; not mild or indulgent; rigorous; as, severe criticism; severe punishment.
Severe (superl.) Rigidly methodical, or adherent to rule or principle; exactly conformed to a standard; not allowing or employing unneccessary ornament, amplification, etc.; strict; -- said of style, argument, etc.
Severe (superl.) Sharp; afflictive; distressing; violent; extreme; as, severe pain, anguish, fortune; severe cold.
Severe (superl.) Difficult to be endured; exact; critical; rigorous; as, a severe test.
Severities (pl. ) of Severity
Severity (n.) The quality or state of being severe.
Severity (n.) Gravity or austerity; extreme strictness; rigor; harshness; as, the severity of a reprimand or a reproof; severity of discipline or government; severity of penalties.
Severity (n.) The quality or power of distressing or paining; extreme degree; extremity; intensity; inclemency; as, the severity of pain or anguish; the severity of cold or heat; the severity of the winter.
Severity (n.) Harshness; cruel treatment; sharpness of punishment; as, severity practiced on prisoners of war.
Severity (n.) Exactness; rigorousness; strictness; as, the severity of a test.
Severy (n.) A bay or compartment of a vaulted ceiling.
Sevocation (n.) A calling aside.
Sevres blue () A very light blue.
Sevres ware () Porcelain manufactured at Sevres, France, ecpecially in the national factory situated there.
Sew (n.) Juice; gravy; a seasoned dish; a delicacy.
Sew (v. t.) To follow; to pursue; to sue.
Sewed (imp.) of Sew
Sewed (p. p.) of Sew
Sewn () of Sew
Sewing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sew
Sew (v. t.) To unite or fasten together by stitches, as with a needle and thread.
Sew (v. t.) To close or stop by ssewing; -- often with up; as, to sew up a rip.
Sew (v. t.) To inclose by sewing; -- sometimes with up; as, to sew money in a bag.
Sew (v. i.) To practice sewing; to work with needle and thread.
Sew (v. t.) To drain, as a pond, for taking the fish.
Sewage (n.) The contents of a sewer or drain; refuse liquids or matter carried off by sewers
Sewage (n.) Sewerage, 2.
Sewe (v. i.) To perform the duties of a sewer. See 3d Sewer.
Sewel (n.) A scarecrow, generally made of feathers tied to a string, hung up to prevent deer from breaking into a place.
Sewellel (n.) A peculiar gregarious burrowing rodent (Haplodon rufus), native of the coast region of the Northwestern United States. It somewhat resembles a muskrat or marmot, but has only a rudimentary tail. Its head is broad, its eyes are small and its fur is brownish above, gray beneath. It constitutes the family Haplodontidae. Called also boomer, showt'l, and mountain beaver.
Sewen (n.) A British trout usually regarded as a variety (var. Cambricus) of the salmon trout.
Sewer (n.) One who sews, or stitches.
Sewer (n.) A small tortricid moth whose larva sews together the edges of a leaf by means of silk; as, the apple-leaf sewer (Phoxopteris nubeculana)
Sewer (n.) A drain or passage to carry off water and filth under ground; a subterraneous channel, particularly in cities.
Sewer (n.) Formerly, an upper servant, or household officer, who set on and removed the dishes at a feast, and who also brought water for the hands of the guests.
Sewerage (n.) The construction of a sewer or sewers.
Sewerage (n.) The system of sewers in a city, town, etc.; the general drainage of a city or town by means of sewers.
Sewerage (n.) The material collected in, and discharged by, sewers.
Sewin (n.) Same as Sewen.
Sewing (n.) The act or occupation of one who sews.
Sewing (n.) That which is sewed with the needle.
Sewster (n.) A seamstress.
Sex- () A combining form meaning six; as, sexdigitism; sexennial.
Sex (n.) The distinguishing peculiarity of male or female in both animals and plants; the physical difference between male and female; the assemblage of properties or qualities by which male is distinguished from female.
Sex (n.) One of the two divisions of organic beings formed on the distinction of male and female.
Sex (n.) The capability in plants of fertilizing or of being fertilized; as, staminate and pistillate flowers are of opposite sexes.
Sex (n.) One of the groups founded on this distinction.
Sexagenarian (n.) A person who is sixty years old.
Sexagenary (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, the number sixty; poceeding by sixties; sixty years old.
Sexagenary (n.) Something composed of sixty parts or divisions.
Sexagenary (n.) A sexagenarian.
Sexagesima (n.) The second Sunday before Lent; -- so called as being about the sixtieth day before Easter.
Sexagesimal (a.) Pertaining to, or founded on, the number sixty.
Sexagesimal (n.) A sexagesimal fraction.
Sexangle (n.) A hexagon.
Sexangled (a.) Alt. of Sexangular
Sexangular (a.) Having six angles; hexagonal.
Sexangularly (adv.) Hexagonally.
Sexavalent (a.) See Sexivalent.
Sexdigitism (n.) The state of having six fingers on a hand, or six toes on a foot.
Sexdigitist (n.) One who has six fingers on a hand, or six toes on a foot.
Sexed (a.) Belonging to sex; having sex; distinctively male of female; as, the sexed condition.
Sexenary (a.) Proceeding by sixes; sextuple; -- applied especially to a system of arithmetical computation in which the base is six.
Sexennial (a.) Lasting six years, or happening once in six years.
Sexennial (n.) A sexennial event.
Sexennially (adv.) Once in six years.
Sexfid (a.) Alt. of Sexifid
Sexifid (a.) Six-cleft; as, a sexfid calyx or nectary.
Sexisyllabic (a.) Having six syllables.
Sexisyllable (n.) A word of six syllables.
Sexivalent (a.) Hexavalent.
Sexless (a.) Having no sex.
Sexlocular (a.) Having six cells for seeds; six-celled; as, a sexlocular pericarp.
Sexly (a.) Pertaining to sex.
Sexradiate (a.) Having six rays; -- said of certain sponge spicules. See Illust. of Spicule.
Sext (n.) The office for the sixth canonical hour, being a part of the Breviary.
Sext (n.) The sixth book of the decretals, added by Pope Boniface VIII.
Sextain (n.) A stanza of six lines; a sestine.
Sextans (n.) A Roman coin, the sixth part of an as.
Sextans (n.) A constellation on the equator south of Leo; the Sextant.
Sextant (n.) The sixth part of a circle.
Sextant (n.) An instrument for measuring angular distances between objects, -- used esp. at sea, for ascertaining the latitude and longitude. It is constructed on the same optical principle as Hadley's quadrant, but usually of metal, with a nicer graduation, telescopic sight, and its arc the sixth, and sometimes the third, part of a circle. See Quadrant.
Sextant (n.) The constellation Sextans.
Sextaries (pl. ) of Sextary
Sextary (n.) An ancient Roman liquid and dry measure, about equal to an English pint.
Sextary (n.) A sacristy.
Sextet (n.) Alt. of Sextetto
Sextetto (n.) See Sestet.
Sexteyn (n.) A sacristan.
Sextic (a.) Of the sixth degree or order.
Sextic (n.) A quantic of the sixth degree.
Sextile (a.) Measured by sixty degrees; fixed or indicated by a distance of sixty degrees.
Sextile (n.) The aspect or position of two planets when distant from each other sixty degrees, or two signs. This position is marked thus: /.
Sextillion (n.) According to the method of numeration (which is followed also in the United States), the number expressed by a unit with twenty-one ciphers annexed. According to the English method, a million raised to the sixth power, or the number expressed by a unit with thirty-six ciphers annexed. See Numeration.
Sextos (pl. ) of Sexto
Sexto (n.) A book consisting of sheets each of which is folded into six leaves.
Sextodecimo (a.) Having sixteen leaves to a sheet; of, or equal to, the size of one fold of a sheet of printing paper when folded so as to make sixteen leaves, or thirty-two pages; as, a sextodecimo volume.
Sextodecimos (pl. ) of Sextodecimo
Sextodecimo (n.) A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into sixteen leaves; hence, indicating, more or less definitely, a size of a book; -- usually written 16mo, or 16.
Sextolet (n.) A double triplet; a group of six equal notes played in the time of four.
Sexton (n.) An under officer of a church, whose business is to take care of the church building and the vessels, vestments, etc., belonging to the church, to attend on the officiating clergyman, and to perform other duties pertaining to the church, such as to dig graves, ring the bell, etc.
Sextoness (n.) A female sexton; a sexton's wife.
Sextonry (n.) Sextonship.
Sextonship (n.) The office of a sexton.
Sextry (n.) See Sacristy.
Sextuple (a.) Six times as much; sixfold.
Sextuple (a.) Divisible by six; having six beats; as, sixtuple measure.
Sexual (a.) Of or pertaining to sex, or the sexes; distinguishing sex; peculiar to the distinction and office of male or female; relating to the distinctive genital organs of the sexes; proceeding from, or based upon, sex; as, sexual characteristics; sexual intercourse, connection, or commerce; sexual desire; sexual diseases; sexual generation.
Sexualist (n.) One who classifies plants by the sexual method of Linnaeus.
Sexuality (n.) The quality or state of being distinguished by sex.
Sexualize (v. t.) To attribute sex to.
Sexually (adv.) In a sexual manner or relation.
Sey () Alt. of Seyh
Seyh () imp. sing. & 2d pers. pl. of See.
Seye () Alt. of Seyen
Seyen () imp. pl. & p. p. of See.
Seynd () p. p. of Senge, to singe.
Seynt (n.) A gridle. See 1st Seint.
Sforzando (a.) Alt. of Sforzato
Sforzato (a.) Forcing or forced; -- a direction placed over a note, to signify that it must be executed with peculiar emphasis and force; -- marked fz (an abbreviation of forzando), sf, sfz, or /.
Sfumato (a.) Having vague outlines, and colors and shades so mingled as to give a misty appearance; -- said of a painting.
Sgraffito (a.) Scratched; -- said of decorative painting of a certain style, in which a white overland surface is cut or scratched through, so as to form the design from a dark ground underneath.
Shab (n.) The itch in animals; also, a scab.
Shabbed (imp. & p. p.) of Shab
Shabbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shab
Shab (v. t.) To play mean tricks; to act shabbily.
Shab (v. t.) To scratch; to rub.
Shabbed (a.) Shabby.
Shabbily (adv.) In a shabby manner.
Shabbiness (n.) The quality or state of being sghabby.
Shabble (n.) Alt. of Shabble
Shabble (n.) A kind of crooked sword or hanger.
Shabby (n.) Torn or worn to rage; poor; mean; ragged.
Shabby (n.) Clothed with ragged, much worn, or soiled garments.
Shabby (n.) Mean; paltry; despicable; as, shabby treatment.
Shabrack (n.) The saddlecloth or housing of a cavalry horse.
Shack (v. t.) To shed or fall, as corn or grain at harvest.
Shack (v. t.) To feed in stubble, or upon waste corn.
Shack (v. t.) To wander as a vagabond or a tramp.
Shack (n.) The grain left after harvest or gleaning; also, nuts which have fallen to the ground.
Shack (n.) Liberty of winter pasturage.
Shack (n.) A shiftless fellow; a low, itinerant beggar; a vagabond; a tramp.
Shackatory (n.) A hound.
Shackle (n.) Stubble.
Shackle (n.) Something which confines the legs or arms so as to prevent their free motion; specifically, a ring or band inclosing the ankle or wrist, and fastened to a similar shackle on the other leg or arm, or to something else, by a chain or a strap; a gyve; a fetter.
Shackle (n.) Hence, that which checks or prevents free action.
Shackle (n.) A fetterlike band worn as an ornament.
Shackle (n.) A link or loop, as in a chain, fitted with a movable bolt, so that the parts can be separated, or the loop removed; a clevis.
Shackle (n.) A link for connecting railroad cars; -- called also drawlink, draglink, etc.
Shackle (n.) The hinged and curved bar of a padlock, by which it is hung to the staple.
Shackled (imp. & p. p.) of Shackle
Shackling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shackle
Shackle (v. t.) To tie or confine the limbs of, so as to prevent free motion; to bind with shackles; to fetter; to chain.
Shackle (v. t.) Figuratively: To bind or confine so as to prevent or embarrass action; to impede; to cumber.
Shackle (v. t.) To join by a link or chain, as railroad cars.
Shacklock (n.) A sort of shackle.
Shackly (a.) Shaky; rickety.
Shad (n. sing. & pl.) Any one of several species of food fishes of the Herring family. The American species (Clupea sapidissima), which is abundant on the Atlantic coast and ascends the larger rivers in spring to spawn, is an important market fish. The European allice shad, or alose (C. alosa), and the twaite shad. (C. finta), are less important species.
Shadbird (n.) The American, or Wilson's, snipe. See under Snipe. So called because it appears at the same time as the shad.
Shadbird (n.) The common European sandpiper.
Shadd (n.) Rounded stones containing tin ore, lying at the surface of the ground, and indicating a vein.
Shadde () obs. imp. of Shed.
Shaddock (n.) A tree (Citrus decumana) and its fruit, which is a large species of orange; -- called also forbidden fruit, and pompelmous.
Shade (n.) Comparative obscurity owing to interception or interruption of the rays of light; partial darkness caused by the intervention of something between the space contemplated and the source of light.
Shade (n.) Darkness; obscurity; -- often in the plural.
Shade (n.) An obscure place; a spot not exposed to light; hence, a secluded retreat.
Shade (n.) That which intercepts, or shelters from, light or the direct rays of the sun; hence, also, that which protects from heat or currents of air; a screen; protection; shelter; cover; as, a lamp shade.
Shade (n.) Shadow.
Shade (n.) The soul after its separation from the body; -- so called because the ancients it to be perceptible to the sight, though not to the touch; a spirit; a ghost; as, the shades of departed heroes.
Shade (n.) The darker portion of a picture; a less illuminated part. See Def. 1, above.
Shade (n.) Degree or variation of color, as darker or lighter, stronger or paler; as, a delicate shade of pink.
Shade (n.) A minute difference or variation, as of thought, belief, expression, etc.; also, the quality or degree of anything which is distinguished from others similar by slight differences; as, the shades of meaning in synonyms.
Shaded (imp. & p. p.) of Shade
Shading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shade
Shade (v. t.) To shelter or screen by intercepting the rays of light; to keep off illumination from.
Shade (v. t.) To shelter; to cover from injury; to protect; to screen; to hide; as, to shade one's eyes.
Shade (v. t.) To obscure; to dim the brightness of.
Shade (v. t.) To pain in obscure colors; to darken.
Shade (v. t.) To mark with gradations of light or color.
Shade (v. t.) To present a shadow or image of; to shadow forth; to represent.
Shadeful (a.) Full of shade; shady.
Shadeless (a.) Being without shade; not shaded.
Shader (n.) One who, or that which, shades.
Shadily (adv.) In a shady manner.
Shadiness (n.) Quality or state of being shady.
Shading (n.) Act or process of making a shade.
Shading (n.) That filling up which represents the effect of more or less darkness, expressing rotundity, projection, etc., in a picture or a drawing.
Shadoof (n.) A machine, resembling a well sweep, used in Egypt for raising water from the Nile for irrigation.
Shadow (n.) Shade within defined limits; obscurity or deprivation of light, apparent on a surface, and representing the form of the body which intercepts the rays of light; as, the shadow of a man, of a tree, or of a tower. See the Note under Shade, n., 1.
Shadow (n.) Darkness; shade; obscurity.
Shadow (n.) A shaded place; shelter; protection; security.
Shadow (n.) A reflected image, as in a mirror or in water.
Shadow (n.) That which follows or attends a person or thing like a shadow; an inseparable companion; hence, an obsequious follower.
Shadow (n.) A spirit; a ghost; a shade; a phantom.
Shadow (n.) An imperfect and faint representation; adumbration; indistinct image; dim bodying forth; hence, mystical representation; type.
Shadow (n.) A small degree; a shade.
Shadow (n.) An uninvited guest coming with one who is invited.
Shadowed (imp. & p. p.) of Shadow
Shadowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shadow
Shadow (n.) To cut off light from; to put in shade; to shade; to throw a shadow upon; to overspead with obscurity.
Shadow (n.) To conceal; to hide; to screen.
Shadow (n.) To protect; to shelter from danger; to shroud.
Shadow (n.) To mark with gradations of light or color; to shade.
Shadow (n.) To represent faintly or imperfectly; to adumbrate; hence, to represent typically.
Shadow (n.) To cloud; to darken; to cast a gloom over.
Shadow (n.) To attend as closely as a shadow; to follow and watch closely, especially in a secret or unobserved manner; as, a detective shadows a criminal.
Shadowiness (n.) The quality or state of being shadowy.
Shadowing (n.) Shade, or gradation of light and color; shading.
Shadowing (n.) A faint representation; an adumbration.
Shadowish (a.) Shadowy; vague.
Shadowless (a.) Having no shadow.
Shadowy (a.) Full of shade or shadows; causing shade or shadow.
Shadowy (a.) Hence, dark; obscure; gloomy; dim.
Shadowy (a.) Not brightly luminous; faintly light.
Shadowy (a.) Faintly representative; hence, typical.
Shadowy (a.) Unsubstantial; unreal; as, shadowy honor.
Shadrach (n.) A mass of iron on which the operation of smelting has failed of its intended effect; -- so called from Shadrach, one of the three Hebrews who came forth unharmed from the fiery furnace of Nebuchadnezzar. (See Dan. iii. 26, 27.)
Shad-spirit (n.) See Shadbird (a)
Shad-waiter (n.) A lake whitefish; the roundfish. See Roundfish.
Shady (superl.) Abounding in shade or shades; overspread with shade; causing shade.
Shady (superl.) Sheltered from the glare of light or sultry heat.
Shady (superl.) Of or pertaining to shade or darkness; hence, unfit to be seen or known; equivocal; dubious or corrupt.
Shaffle (v. i.) To hobble or limp; to shuffle.
Shaffler (n.) A hobbler; one who limps; a shuffer.
Shafiite (n.) A member of one of the four sects of the Sunnites, or Orthodox Mohammedans; -- so called from its founder, Mohammed al-Shafei.
Shaft (n.) The slender, smooth stem of an arrow; hence, an arrow.
Shaft (n.) The long handle of a spear or similar weapon; hence, the weapon itself; (Fig.) anything regarded as a shaft to be thrown or darted; as, shafts of light.
Shaft (n.) That which resembles in some degree the stem or handle of an arrow or a spear; a long, slender part, especially when cylindrical.
Shaft (n.) The trunk, stem, or stalk of a plant.
Shaft (n.) The stem or midrib of a feather.
Shaft (n.) The pole, or tongue, of a vehicle; also, a thill.
Shaft (n.) The part of a candlestick which supports its branches.
Shaft (n.) The handle or helve of certain tools, instruments, etc., as a hammer, a whip, etc.
Shaft (n.) A pole, especially a Maypole.
Shaft (n.) The body of a column; the cylindrical pillar between the capital and base (see Illust. of Column). Also, the part of a chimney above the roof. Also, the spire of a steeple.
Shaft (n.) A column, an obelisk, or other spire-shaped or columnar monument.
Shaft (n.) A rod at the end of a heddle.
Shaft (n.) A solid or hollow cylinder or bar, having one or more journals on which it rests and revolves, and intended to carry one or more wheels or other revolving parts and to transmit power or motion; as, the shaft of a steam engine.
Shaft (n.) A humming bird (Thaumastura cora) having two of the tail feathers next to the middle ones very long in the male; -- called also cora humming bird.
Shaft (n.) A well-like excavation in the earth, perpendicular or nearly so, made for reaching and raising ore, for raising water, etc.
Shaft (n.) A long passage for the admission or outlet of air; an air shaft.
Shaft (n.) The chamber of a blast furnace.
Shafted (a.) Furnished with a shaft, or with shafts; as, a shafted arch.
Shafted (a.) Having a shaft; -- applied to a spear when the head and the shaft are of different tinctures.
Shafting (n.) Shafts, collectivelly; a system of connected shafts for communicating motion.
Shaftman (n.) Alt. of Shaftment
Shaftment (n.) A measure of about six inches.
Shag (n.) Coarse hair or nap; rough, woolly hair.
Shag (n.) A kind of cloth having a long, coarse nap.
Shag (n.) A kind of prepared tobacco cut fine.
Shag (n.) Any species of cormorant.
Shag (a.) Hairy; shaggy.
Shagged (imp. & p. p.) of Shag
Shagging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shag
Shag (v. t.) To make hairy or shaggy; hence, to make rough.
Shagbark (n.) A rough-barked species of hickory (Carya alba), its nut. Called also shellbark. See Hickory.
Shagbark (n.) The West Indian Pithecolobium micradenium, a legiminous tree with a red coiled-up pod.
Shagebush (n.) A sackbut.
Shagged (a.) Shaggy; rough.
Shagginess (n.) The quality or state of being shaggy; roughness; shaggedness.
Shaggy (n.) Rough with long hair or wool.
Shaggy (n.) Rough; rugged; jaggy.
Shag-haired (a.) Having shaggy hair.
Shag-rag (n.) The unkempt and ragged part of the community.
Shagreen (v. t.) To chagrin.
Shagreen (n.) A kind of untanned leather prepared in Russia and the East, from the skins of horses, asses, and camels, and grained so as to be covered with small round granulations. This characteristic surface is produced by pressing small seeds into the grain or hair side when moist, and afterward, when dry, scraping off the roughness left between them, and then, by soaking, causing the portions of the skin which had been compressed or indented by the seeds to swell up into relief. It is used for covering small cases and boxes.
Shagreen (n.) The skin of various small sharks and other fishes when having small, rough, bony scales. The dogfishes of the genus Scyllium furnish a large part of that used in the arts.
Shagreen (a.) Alt. of Shagreened
Shagreened (a.) Made or covered with the leather called shagreen.
Shagreened (a.) Covered with rough scales or points like those on shagreen.
Shah (n.) The title of the supreme ruler in certain Eastern countries, especially Persia.
Shahin (n.) A large and swift Asiatic falcon (Falco pregrinator) highly valued in falconry.
Shaik (n.) See Sheik.
Shail (v. i.) To walk sidewise.
Shake () obs. p. p. of Shake.
Shook (imp.) of Shake
Shaken (p. p.) of Shake
Shook () of Shake
Shaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shake
Shake (v.) To cause to move with quick or violent vibrations; to move rapidly one way and the other; to make to tremble or shiver; to agitate.
Shake (v.) Fig.: To move from firmness; to weaken the stability of; to cause to waver; to impair the resolution of.
Shake (v.) To give a tremulous tone to; to trill; as, to shake a note in music.
Shake (v.) To move or remove by agitating; to throw off by a jolting or vibrating motion; to rid one's self of; -- generally with an adverb, as off, out, etc.; as, to shake fruit down from a tree.
Shake (v. i.) To be agitated with a waving or vibratory motion; to tremble; to shiver; to quake; to totter.
Shake (n.) The act or result of shaking; a vacillating or wavering motion; a rapid motion one way and other; a trembling, quaking, or shivering; agitation.
Shake (n.) A fissure or crack in timber, caused by its being dried too suddenly.
Shake (n.) A fissure in rock or earth.
Shake (n.) A rapid alternation of a principal tone with another represented on the next degree of the staff above or below it; a trill.
Shake (n.) One of the staves of a hogshead or barrel taken apart.
Shake (n.) A shook of staves and headings.
Shake (n.) The redshank; -- so called from the nodding of its head while on the ground.
Shakedown (n.) A temporary substitute for a bed, as one made on the floor or on chairs; -- perhaps originally from the shaking down of straw for this purpose.
Shakefork (n.) A fork for shaking hay; a pitchfork.
Shaken (a.) Caused to shake; agitated; as, a shaken bough.
Shaken (a.) Cracked or checked; split. See Shake, n., 2.
Shaken (n.) Impaired, as by a shock.
Shaker (n.) A person or thing that shakes, or by means of which something is shaken.
Shaker (n.) One of a religious sect who do not marry, popularly so called from the movements of the members in dancing, which forms a part of their worship.
Shaker (n.) A variety of pigeon.
Shakeress (n.) A female Shaker.
Shakerism (n.) Doctrines of the Shakers.
Shakespearean (a.) Of, pertaining to, or in the style of, Shakespeare or his works.
Shakiness (n.) Quality of being shaky.
Shakings (n. pl.) Deck sweepings, refuse of cordage, canvas, etc.
Shako (n.) A kind of military cap or headdress.
Shaky (superl.) Shaking or trembling; as, a shaky spot in a marsh; a shaky hand.
Shaky (superl.) Full of shakes or cracks; cracked; as, shaky timber.
Shaky (superl.) Easily shaken; tottering; unsound; as, a shaky constitution; shaky business credit.
Shale (n.) A shell or husk; a cod or pod.
Shale (n.) A fine-grained sedimentary rock of a thin, laminated, and often friable, structure.
Shale (v. t.) To take off the shell or coat of; to shell.
Should (imp.) of Shall
Shall (v. i. & auxiliary.) To owe; to be under obligation for.
Shall (v. i. & auxiliary.) To be obliged; must.
Shall (v. i. & auxiliary.) As an auxiliary, shall indicates a duty or necessity whose obligation is derived from the person speaking; as, you shall go; he shall go; that is, I order or promise your going. It thus ordinarily expresses, in the second and third persons, a command, a threat, or a promise. If the auxillary be emphasized, the command is made more imperative, the promise or that more positive and sure. It is also employed in the language of prophecy; as, "the day shall come when . . . , " since a promise or threat and an authoritative prophecy nearly coincide in significance. In shall with the first person, the necessity of the action is sometimes implied as residing elsewhere than in the speaker; as, I shall suffer; we shall see; and there is always a less distinct and positive assertion of his volition than is indicated by will. "I shall go" implies nearly a simple futurity; more exactly, a foretelling or an expectation of my going, in which, naturally enough, a certain degree of plan or intention may be included; emphasize the shall, and the event is described as certain to occur, and the expression approximates in meaning to our emphatic "I will go." In a question, the relation of speaker and source of obligation is of course transferred to the person addressed; as, "Shall you go?" (answer, "I shall go"); "Shall he go?" i. e., "Do you require or promise his going?" (answer, "He shall go".) The same relation is transferred to either second or third person in such phrases as "You say, or think, you shall go;" "He says, or thinks, he shall go." After a conditional conjunction (as if, whether) shall is used in all persons to express futurity simply; as, if I, you, or he shall say they are right. Should is everywhere used in the same connection and the same senses as shall, as its imperfect. It also expresses duty or moral obligation; as, he should do it whether he will or not. In the early English, and hence in our English Bible, shall is the auxiliary mainly used, in all the persons, to express simple futurity. (Cf. Will, v. t.) Shall may be used elliptically; thus, with an adverb or other word expressive of motion go may be omitted.
Shalli (n.) See Challis.
Shallon (n.) An evergreen shrub (Gaultheria Shallon) of Northwest America; also, its fruit. See Salal-berry.
Shalloon (n.) A thin, loosely woven, twilled worsted stuff.
Shallop (n.) A boat.
Shallot (n.) A small kind of onion (Allium Ascalonicum) growing in clusters, and ready for gathering in spring; a scallion, or eschalot.
Shallow (superl.) Not deep; having little depth; shoal.
Shallow (superl.) Not deep in tone.
Shallow (superl.) Not intellectually deep; not profound; not penetrating deeply; simple; not wise or knowing; ignorant; superficial; as, a shallow mind; shallow learning.
Shallow (n.) A place in a body of water where the water is not deep; a shoal; a flat; a shelf.
Shallow (n.) The rudd.
Shallow (v. t.) To make shallow.
Shallow (v. i.) To become shallow, as water.
Shallow-bodied (a.) Having a moderate depth of hold; -- said of a vessel.
Shallow-brained (a.) Weak in intellect; foolish; empty-headed.
Shallow-hearted (a.) Incapable of deep feeling.
Shallowly (adv.) In a shallow manner.
Shallowness (n.) Quality or state of being shallow.
Shallow-pated (a.) Shallow-brained.
Shallow-waisted (a.) Having a flush deck, or with only a moderate depression amidships; -- said of a vessel.
Shalm (n.) See Shawm.
Shalt () 2d per. sing. of Shall.
Shaly (a.) Resembling shale in structure.
Sham (n.) That which deceives expectation; any trick, fraud, or device that deludes and disappoint; a make-believe; delusion; imposture, humbug.
Sham (n.) A false front, or removable ornamental covering.
Sham (a.) False; counterfeit; pretended; feigned; unreal; as, a sham fight.
Shammed (imp. & p. p.) of Sham
Shamming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sham
Sham (v. t.) To trick; to cheat; to deceive or delude with false pretenses.
Sham (v. t.) To obtrude by fraud or imposition.
Sham (v. t.) To assume the manner and character of; to imitate; to ape; to feign.
Sham (v. i.) To make false pretenses; to deceive; to feign; to impose.
Shama (n.) A saxicoline singing bird (Kittacincla macroura) of India, noted for the sweetness and power of its song. In confinement it imitates the notes of other birds and various animals with accuracy. Its head, neck, back, breast, and tail are glossy black, the rump white, the under parts chestnut.
Shaman (n.) A priest of Shamanism; a wizard among the Shamanists.
Shamanic (a.) Of or pertaining to Shamanism.
Shamanism (n.) The type of religion which once prevalied among all the Ural-Altaic peoples (Tungusic, Mongol, and Turkish), and which still survives in various parts of Northern Asia. The Shaman, or wizard priest, deals with good as well as with evil spirits, especially the good spirits of ancestors.
Shamanist (n.) An adherent of Shamanism.
Shamble (n.) One of a succession of niches or platforms, one above another, to hold ore which is thrown successively from platform to platform, and thus raised to a higher level.
Shamble (n.) A place where butcher's meat is sold.
Shamble (n.) A place for slaughtering animals for meat.
Shambled (imp. & p. p.) of Shamble
Shambling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shamble
Shamble (v. i.) To walk awkwardly and unsteadily, as if the knees were weak; to shuffle along.
Shambling (a.) Characterized by an awkward, irregular pace; as, a shambling trot; shambling legs.
Shambling (n.) An awkward, irregular gait.
Shame (n.) A painful sensation excited by a consciousness of guilt or impropriety, or of having done something which injures reputation, or of the exposure of that which nature or modesty prompts us to conceal.
Shame (n.) Reproach incurred or suffered; dishonor; ignominy; derision; contempt.
Shame (n.) The cause or reason of shame; that which brings reproach, and degrades a person in the estimation of others; disgrace.
Shame (n.) The parts which modesty requires to be covered; the private parts.
Shamed (imp. & p. p.) of Shame
Shaming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shame
Shame (v. t.) To make ashamed; to excite in (a person) a comsciousness of guilt or impropriety, or of conduct derogatory to reputation; to put to shame.
Shame (v. t.) To cover with reproach or ignominy; to dishonor; to disgrace.
Shame (v. t.) To mock at; to deride.
Shame (n.) To be ashamed; to feel shame.
Shamefaced (n.) Easily confused or put out of countenance; diffident; bashful; modest.
Shamefast (a.) Modest; shamefaced.
Shameful (a.) Bringing shame or disgrace; injurious to reputation; disgraceful.
Shameful (a.) Exciting the feeling of shame in others; indecent; as, a shameful picture; a shameful sight.
Shameless (a.) Destitute of shame; wanting modesty; brazen-faced; insensible to disgrace.
Shameless (a.) Indicating want of modesty, or sensibility to disgrace; indecent; as, a shameless picture or poem.
Shame-proof (n.) Shameless.
Shamer (n.) One who, or that which, disgraces, or makes ashamed.
Shammer (n.) One who shams; an impostor.
Shammy (n.) The chamois.
Shammy (n.) A soft, pliant leather, prepared originally from the skin of the chamois, but now made also from the skin of the sheep, goat, kid, deer, and calf. See Shamoying.
Shamois (n.) Alt. of Shamoy
Shamoy (n.) See Shammy.
Shamoying (n.) A process used in preparing certain kinds of leather, which consists in frizzing the skin, and working oil into it to supply the place of the astringent (tannin, alum, or the like) ordinarily used in tanning.
Shampooed (imp. & p. p.) of Shampoo
Shampooing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shampoo
Shampoo (v. t.) To press or knead the whole surface of the body of (a person), and at the same time to stretch the limbs and joints, in connection with the hot bath.
Shampoo (v. t.) To wash throughly and rub the head of (a person), with the fingers, using either soap, or a soapy preparation, for the more thorough cleansing.
Shampoo (n.) The act of shampooing.
Shampooer (n.) One who shampoos.
Shamrock (n.) A trifoliate plant used as a national emblem by the Irish. The legend is that St. Patrick once plucked a leaf of it for use in illustrating the doctrine of the trinity.
Shandrydan (n.) A jocosely depreciative name for a vehicle.
Shandygaff (n.) A mixture of strong beer and ginger beer.
Shanghaied (imp. & p. p.) of Shanghai
Shanghaiing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shanghai
Shanghai (v. t.) To intoxicate and ship (a person) as a sailor while in this condition.
Shanghai (n.) A large and tall breed of domestic fowl.
Shank (n.) See Chank.
Shank (v.) The part of the leg from the knee to the foot; the shin; the shin bone; also, the whole leg.
Shank (v.) Hence, that part of an instrument, tool, or other thing, which connects the acting part with a handle or other part, by which it is held or moved.
Shank (v.) That part of a key which is between the bow and the part which enters the wards of the lock.
Shank (v.) The middle part of an anchor, or that part which is between the ring and the arms.
Shank (v.) That part of a hoe, rake, knife, or the like, by which it is secured to a handle.
Shank (v.) A loop forming an eye to a button.
Shank (v.) The space between two channels of the Doric triglyph.
Shank (v.) A large ladle for molten metal, fitted with long bars for handling it.
Shank (v.) The body of a type.
Shank (v.) The part of the sole beneath the instep connecting the broader front part with the heel.
Shank (v.) A wading bird with long legs; as, the green-legged shank, or knot; the yellow shank, or tattler; -- called also shanks.
Shank (v.) Flat-nosed pliers, used by opticians for nipping off the edges of pieces of glass to make them round.
Shank (v. i.) To fall off, as a leaf, flower, or capsule, on account of disease affecting the supporting footstalk; -- usually followed by off.
Shankbeer (n.) See Schenkbeer.
Shanked (a.) Having a shank.
Shanker (n.) See Chancre.
Shannies (pl. ) of Shanny
Shanny (n.) The European smooth blenny (Blennius pholis). It is olive-green with irregular black spots, and without appendages on the head.
Shan't () A contraction of shall not.
Shanty (a.) Jaunty; showy.
Shanties (pl. ) of Shanty
Shanty (n.) A small, mean dwelling; a rough, slight building for temporary use; a hut.
Shanty (v. i.) To inhabit a shanty.
Shapable (a.) That may be shaped.
Shapable (a.) Shapely.
Shaped (imp.) of Shape
Shaped (p. p.) of Shape
Shapen () of Shape
Shaping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shape
Shape (n.) To form or create; especially, to mold or make into a particular form; to give proper form or figure to.
Shape (n.) To adapt to a purpose; to regulate; to adjust; to direct; as, to shape the course of a vessel.
Shape (n.) To image; to conceive; to body forth.
Shape (n.) To design; to prepare; to plan; to arrange.
Shape (v. i.) To suit; to be adjusted or conformable.
Shape (n.) Character or construction of a thing as determining its external appearance; outward aspect; make; figure; form; guise; as, the shape of a tree; the shape of the head; an elegant shape.
Shape (n.) That which has form or figure; a figure; an appearance; a being.
Shape (n.) A model; a pattern; a mold.
Shape (n.) Form of embodiment, as in words; form, as of thought or conception; concrete embodiment or example, as of some quality.
Shape (n.) Dress for disguise; guise.
Shape (n.) A rolled or hammered piece, as a bar, beam, angle iron, etc., having a cross section different from merchant bar.
Shape (n.) A piece which has been roughly forged nearly to the form it will receive when completely forged or fitted.
Shapeless (a.) Destitute of shape or regular form; wanting symmetry of dimensions; misshapen; -- opposed to shapely.
Shapeliness (n.) The quality or state of being shapely.
Shapely (superl.) Well-formed; having a regular shape; comely; symmetrical.
Shapely (superl.) Fit; suitable.
Shaper (n.) One who shapes; as, the shaper of one's fortunes.
Shaper (n.) That which shapes; a machine for giving a particular form or outline to an object.
Shaper (n.) A kind of planer in which the tool, instead of the work, receives a reciprocating motion, usually from a crank.
Shaper (n.) A machine with a vertically revolving cutter projecting above a flat table top, for cutting irregular outlines, moldings, etc.
Shapoo (n.) The oorial.
Shard (n.) A plant; chard.
Shard (n.) A piece or fragment of an earthen vessel, or a like brittle substance, as the shell of an egg or snail.
Shard (n.) The hard wing case of a beetle.
Shard (n.) A gap in a fence.
Shard (n.) A boundary; a division.
Shard-borne (a.) Borne on shards or scaly wing cases.
Sharded (a.) Having elytra, as a beetle.
Shardy (a.) Having, or consisting of, shards.
Share (n.) The part (usually an iron or steel plate) of a plow which cuts the ground at the bottom of a furrow; a plowshare.
Share (n.) The part which opens the ground for the reception of the seed, in a machine for sowing seed.
Share (v.) A certain quantity; a portion; a part; a division; as, a small share of prudence.
Share (v.) Especially, the part allotted or belonging to one, of any property or interest owned by a number; a portion among others; an apportioned lot; an allotment; a dividend.
Share (v.) Hence, one of a certain number of equal portions into which any property or invested capital is divided; as, a ship owned in ten shares.
Share (v.) The pubes; the sharebone.
Shared (imp. & p. p.) of Share
Sharing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Share
Share (v. t.) To part among two or more; to distribute in portions; to divide.
Share (v. t.) To partake of, use, or experience, with others; to have a portion of; to take and possess in common; as, to share a shelter with another.
Share (v. t.) To cut; to shear; to cleave; to divide.
Share (v. i.) To have part; to receive a portion; to partake, enjoy, or suffer with others.
Sharebeam (n.) The part of the plow to which the share is attached.
Sharebone (n.) The public bone.
Sharebroker (n.) A broker who deals in railway or other shares and securities.
Shareholder (n.) One who holds or owns a share or shares in a joint fund or property.
Sharer (n.) One who shares; a participator; a partaker; also, a divider; a distributer.
Sharewort (n.) A composite plant (Aster Tripolium) growing along the seacoast of Europe.
Shark (v. t. & i.) Any one of numerous species of elasmobranch fishes of the order Plagiostomi, found in all seas.
Shark (v. t. & i.) A rapacious, artful person; a sharper.
Shark (v. t. & i.) Trickery; fraud; petty rapine; as, to live upon the shark.
Shark (v. t.) To pick or gather indiscriminately or covertly.
Sharked (imp. & p. p.) of Shark
Sharking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shark
Shark (v. i.) To play the petty thief; to practice fraud or trickery; to swindle.
Shark (v. i.) To live by shifts and stratagems.
Sharker (n.) One who lives by sharking.
Sharking (n.) Petty rapine; trick; also, seeking a livelihood by shifts and dishonest devices.
Sharock (n.) An East Indian coin of the value of 12/ pence sterling, or about 25 cents.
Sharp (superl.) Having a very thin edge or fine point; of a nature to cut or pierce easily; not blunt or dull; keen.
Sharp (superl.) Terminating in a point or edge; not obtuse or rounded; somewhat pointed or edged; peaked or ridged; as, a sharp hill; sharp features.
Sharp (superl.) Affecting the sense as if pointed or cutting, keen, penetrating, acute: to the taste or smell, pungent, acid, sour, as ammonia has a sharp taste and odor; to the hearing, piercing, shrill, as a sharp sound or voice; to the eye, instantaneously brilliant, dazzling, as a sharp flash.
Sharp (superl.) High in pitch; acute; as, a sharp note or tone.
Sharp (superl.) Raised a semitone in pitch; as, C sharp (C/), which is a half step, or semitone, higher than C.
Sharp (superl.) So high as to be out of tune, or above true pitch; as, the tone is sharp; that instrument is sharp. Opposed in all these senses to flat.
Sharp (superl.) Very trying to the feelings; piercing; keen; severe; painful; distressing; as, sharp pain, weather; a sharp and frosty air.
Sharp (superl.) Cutting in language or import; biting; sarcastic; cruel; harsh; rigorous; severe; as, a sharp rebuke.
Sharp (superl.) Of keen perception; quick to discern or distinguish; having nice discrimination; acute; penetrating; sagacious; clever; as, a sharp eye; sharp sight, hearing, or judgment.
Sharp (superl.) Eager in pursuit; keen in quest; impatient for gratification; keen; as, a sharp appetite.
Sharp (superl.) Fierce; ardent; fiery; violent; impetuous.
Sharp (superl.) Keenly or unduly attentive to one's own interest; close and exact in dealing; shrewd; as, a sharp dealer; a sharp customer.
Sharp (superl.) Composed of hard, angular grains; gritty; as, sharp sand.
Sharp (superl.) Steep; precipitous; abrupt; as, a sharp ascent or descent; a sharp turn or curve.
Sharp (superl.) Uttered in a whisper, or with the breath alone, without voice, as certain consonants, such as p, k, t, f; surd; nonvocal; aspirated.
Sharp (adv.) To a point or edge; piercingly; eagerly; sharply.
Sharp (adv.) Precisely; exactly; as, we shall start at ten o'clock sharp.
Sharp (n.) A sharp tool or weapon.
Sharp (n.) The character [/] used to indicate that the note before which it is placed is to be raised a half step, or semitone, in pitch.
Sharp (n.) A sharp tone or note.
Sharp (n.) A portion of a stream where the water runs very rapidly.
Sharp (n.) A sewing needle having a very slender point; a needle of the most pointed of the three grades, blunts, betweens, and sharps.
Sharp (n.) Same as Middlings, 1.
Sharp (n.) An expert.
Sharped (imp. & p. p.) of Sharp
Sharping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sharp
Sharp (v. t.) To sharpen.
Sharp (v. t.) To raise above the proper pitch; to elevate the tone of; especially, to raise a half step, or semitone, above the natural tone.
Sharp (v. i.) To play tricks in bargaining; to act the sharper.
Sharp (v. i.) To sing above the proper pitch.
Sharp-cut (a.) Cut sharply or definitely, or so as to make a clear, well-defined impression, as the lines of an engraved plate, and the like; clear-cut; hence, having great distinctness; well-defined; clear.
Sarpened (imp. & p. p.) of Sharpen
Sharpening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sharpen
Sharpen (a.) To make sharp.
Sharpen (a.) To give a keen edge or fine point to; to make sharper; as, to sharpen an ax, or the teeth of a saw.
Sharpen (a.) To render more quick or acute in perception; to make more ready or ingenious.
Sharpen (a.) To make more eager; as, to sharpen men's desires.
Sharpen (a.) To make more pungent and intense; as, to sharpen a pain or disease.
Sharpen (a.) To make biting, sarcastic, or severe.
Sharpen (a.) To render more shrill or piercing.
Sharpen (a.) To make more tart or acid; to make sour; as, the rays of the sun sharpen vinegar.
Sharpen (a.) To raise, as a sound, by means of a sharp; to apply a sharp to.
Sharpen (v. i.) To grow or become sharp.
Sharper (n.) A person who bargains closely, especially, one who cheats in bargains; a swinder; also, a cheating gamester.
Sharpie (n.) A long, sharp, flat-bottomed boat, with one or two masts carrying a triangular sail. They are often called Fair Haven sharpies, after the place on the coast of Connecticut where they originated.
Sharpling (n.) A stickleback.
Sharply (adv.) In a sharp manner,; keenly; acutely.
Sharpness (n.) The quality or condition of being sharp; keenness; acuteness.
Sharpsaw (n.) The great titmouse; -- so called from its harsh call notes.
Sharp-set (a.) Eager in appetite or desire of gratification; affected by keen hunger; ravenous; as, an eagle or a lion sharp-set.
Sharpshooter (n.) One skilled in shooting at an object with exactness; a good marksman.
Sharpshooting (n.) A shooting with great precision and effect; hence, a keen contest of wit or argument.
Sharp-sighted (a.) Having quick or acute sight; -- used literally and figuratively.
Sharptail (n.) The pintail duck.
Sharptail (n.) The pintail grouse, or prairie chicken.
Sharp-witted (a.) Having an acute or nicely discerning mind.
Shash (n.) The scarf of a turban.
Shash (n.) A sash.
Shaster (n.) Alt. of Shastra
Shastra (n.) A treatise for authoritative instruction among the Hindoos; a book of institutes; especially, a treatise explaining the Vedas.
Shathmont (n.) A shaftment.
Shattered (imp. & p. p.) of Shatter
Shattering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shatter
Shatter (v. t.) To break at once into many pieces; to dash, burst, or part violently into fragments; to rend into splinters; as, an explosion shatters a rock or a bomb; too much steam shatters a boiler; an oak is shattered by lightning.
Shatter (v. t.) To disorder; to derange; to render unsound; as, to be shattered in intellect; his constitution was shattered; his hopes were shattered.
Shatter (v. t.) To scatter about.
Shatter (v. i.) To be broken into fragments; to fall or crumble to pieces by any force applied.
Shatter (n.) A fragment of anything shattered; -- used chiefly or soley in the phrase into shatters; as, to break a glass into shatters.
Shatter-brained (a.) Alt. of Shatter-pated
Shatter-pated (a.) Disordered or wandering in intellect; hence, heedless; wild.
Shattery (a.) Easily breaking into pieces; not compact; loose of texture; brittle; as, shattery spar.
Shave () obs. p. p. of Shave.
Shaved (imp.) of Shave
Shaved (p. p.) of Shave
Shaven () of Shave
Shaving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shave
Shave (v. t.) To cut or pare off from the surface of a body with a razor or other edged instrument; to cut off closely, as with a razor; as, to shave the beard.
Shave (v. t.) To make bare or smooth by cutting off closely the surface, or surface covering, of; especially, to remove the hair from with a razor or other sharp instrument; to take off the beard or hair of; as, to shave the face or the crown of the head; he shaved himself.
Shave (v. t.) To cut off thin slices from; to cut in thin slices.
Shave (v. t.) To skim along or near the surface of; to pass close to, or touch lightly, in passing.
Shave (v. t.) To strip; to plunder; to fleece.
Shave (v. i.) To use a razor for removing the beard; to cut closely; hence, to be hard and severe in a bargain; to practice extortion; to cheat.
Shave (v. t.) A thin slice; a shaving.
Shave (v. t.) A cutting of the beard; the operation of shaving.
Shave (v. t.) An exorbitant discount on a note.
Shave (v. t.) A premium paid for an extension of the time of delivery or payment, or for the right to vary a stock contract in any particular.
Shave (v. t.) A hand tool consisting of a sharp blade with a handle at each end; a drawing knife; a spokeshave.
Shave (v. t.) The act of passing very near to, so as almost to graze; as, the bullet missed by a close shave.
Shaveling (n.) A man shaved; hence, a monk, or other religious; -- used in contempt.
Shaver (n.) One who shaves; one whose occupation is to shave.
Shaver (n.) One who is close in bargains; a sharper.
Shaver (n.) One who fleeces; a pillager; a plunderer.
Shaver (n.) A boy; a lad; a little fellow.
Shaver (n.) A tool or machine for shaving.
Shaving (n.) The act of one who, or that which, shaves; specifically, the act of cutting off the beard with a razor.
Shaving (n.) That which is shaved off; a thin slice or strip pared off with a shave, a knife, a plane, or other cutting instrument.
Shaw (n.) A thicket; a small wood or grove.
Shaw (n.) The leaves and tops of vegetables, as of potatoes, turnips, etc.
Shawfowl (n.) The representation or image of a fowl made by fowlers to shoot at.
Shawl (n.) A square or oblong cloth of wool, cotton, silk, or other textile or netted fabric, used, especially by women, as a loose covering for the neck and shoulders.
Shawl (v. t.) To wrap in a shawl.
Shawm (n.) A wind instrument of music, formerly in use, supposed to have resembled either the clarinet or the hautboy in form.
Shawnees (n. pl.) A tribe of North American Indians who occupied Western New York and part of Ohio, but were driven away and widely dispersed by the Iroquois.
Shay (n.) A chaise.
She (obj.) This or that female; the woman understood or referred to; the animal of the female sex, or object personified as feminine, which was spoken of.
She (obj.) A woman; a female; -- used substantively.
Sheading (v. t.) A tithing, or division, in the Isle of Man, in which there is a coroner, or chief constable. The island is divided into six sheadings.
Sheaf (n.) A sheave.
Sheaves (pl. ) of Sheaf
Sheaf (n.) A quantity of the stalks and ears of wheat, rye, or other grain, bound together; a bundle of grain or straw.
Sheaf (n.) Any collection of things bound together; a bundle; specifically, a bundle of arrows sufficient to fill a quiver, or the allowance of each archer, -- usually twenty-four.
Sheaf (v. t.) To gather and bind into a sheaf; to make into sheaves; as, to sheaf wheat.
Sheaf (v. i.) To collect and bind cut grain, or the like; to make sheaves.
Sheafy (a.) Pertaining to, or consisting of, a sheaf or sheaves; resembling a sheaf.
Sheal (n.) Same as Sheeling.
Sheal (v. t.) To put under a sheal or shelter.
Sheal (v. t.) To take the husks or pods off from; to shell; to empty of its contents, as a husk or a pod.
Sheal (n.) A shell or pod.
Shealing (n.) The outer husk, pod, or shell, as of oats, pease, etc.; sheal; shell.
Shealing (n.) Same as Sheeling.
Sheared (imp.) of Shear
Shore () of Shear
Sheared (p. p.) of Shear
Shorn () of Shear
Shearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shear
Shear (v. t.) To cut, clip, or sever anything from with shears or a like instrument; as, to shear sheep; to shear cloth.
Shear (v. t.) To separate or sever with shears or a similar instrument; to cut off; to clip (something) from a surface; as, to shear a fleece.
Shear (v. t.) To reap, as grain.
Shear (v. t.) Fig.: To deprive of property; to fleece.
Shear (v. t.) To produce a change of shape in by a shear. See Shear, n., 4.
Shear (v. t.) A pair of shears; -- now always used in the plural, but formerly also in the singular. See Shears.
Shear (v. t.) A shearing; -- used in designating the age of sheep.
Shear (v. t.) An action, resulting from applied forces, which tends to cause two contiguous parts of a body to slide relatively to each other in a direction parallel to their plane of contact; -- also called shearing stress, and tangential stress.
Shear (v. t.) A strain, or change of shape, of an elastic body, consisting of an extension in one direction, an equal compression in a perpendicular direction, with an unchanged magnitude in the third direction.
Shear (v. i.) To deviate. See Sheer.
Shear (v. i.) To become more or less completely divided, as a body under the action of forces, by the sliding of two contiguous parts relatively to each other in a direction parallel to their plane of contact.
Shearbill (n.) The black skimmer. See Skimmer.
Sheard (n.) See Shard.
Shearer (n.) One who shears.
Shearer (n.) A reaper.
Shearing (n.) The act or operation of clipping with shears or a shearing machine, as the wool from sheep, or the nap from cloth.
Shearing (n.) The product of the act or operation of clipping with shears or a shearing machine; as, the whole shearing of a flock; the shearings from cloth.
Shearing (n.) Same as Shearling.
Shearing (n.) The act or operation of reaping.
Shearing (n.) The act or operation of dividing with shears; as, the shearing of metal plates.
Shearing (n.) The process of preparing shear steel; tilting.
Shearing (n.) The process of making a vertical side cutting in working into a face of coal.
Shearling (n.) A sheep but once sheared.
Shearmen (pl. ) of Shearman
Shearman (n.) One whose occupation is to shear cloth.
Shearn (n.) Dung; excrement.
Shears (n.) A cutting instrument.
Shears (n.) An instrument consisting of two blades, commonly with bevel edges, connected by a pivot, and working on both sides of the material to be cut, -- used for cutting cloth and other substances.
Shears (n.) A similar instrument the blades of which are extensions of a curved spring, -- used for shearing sheep or skins.
Shears (n.) A shearing machine; a blade, or a set of blades, working against a resisting edge.
Shears (n.) Anything in the form of shears.
Shears (n.) A pair of wings.
Shears (n.) An apparatus for raising heavy weights, and especially for stepping and unstepping the lower masts of ships. It consists of two or more spars or pieces of timber, fastened together near the top, steadied by a guy or guys, and furnished with the necessary tackle.
Shears (n.) The bedpiece of a machine tool, upon which a table or slide rest is secured; as, the shears of a lathe or planer. See Illust. under Lathe.
Sheartail (n.) The common tern.
Sheartail (n.) Any one of several species of humming birds of the genus Thaumastura having a long forked tail.
Shearwater (n.) Any one of numerous species of long-winged oceanic birds of the genus Puffinus and related genera. They are allied to the petrels, but are larger. The Manx shearwater (P. Anglorum), the dusky shearwater (P. obscurus), and the greater shearwater (P. major), are well-known species of the North Atlantic. See Hagdon.
Sheatfish (n.) A European siluroid fish (Silurus glanis) allied to the cat-fishes. It is the largest fresh-water fish of Europe, sometimes becoming six feet or more in length. See Siluroid.
Sheath (n.) A case for the reception of a sword, hunting knife, or other long and slender instrument; a scabbard.
Sheath (n.) Any sheathlike covering, organ, or part.
Sheath (n.) The base of a leaf when sheathing or investing a stem or branch, as in grasses.
Sheath (n.) One of the elytra of an insect.
Sheathbill (n.) Either one of two species of birds composing the genus Chionis, and family Chionidae, native of the islands of the Antarctic seas.
Sheathed (imp. & p. p.) of Sheathe
Sheating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sheathe
Sheathe (v. t.) To put into a sheath, case, or scabbard; to inclose or cover with, or as with, a sheath or case.
Sheathe (v. t.) To fit or furnish, as with a sheath.
Sheathe (v. t.) To case or cover with something which protects, as thin boards, sheets of metal, and the like; as, to sheathe a ship with copper.
Sheathe (v. t.) To obtund or blunt, as acrimonious substances, or sharp particles.
Sheathed (a.) Povided with, or inclosed in, sheath.
Sheathed (a.) Invested by a sheath, or cylindrical membranaceous tube, which is the base of the leaf, as the stalk or culm in grasses; vaginate.
Sheather (n.) One who sheathes.
Sheathfish (n.) Same as Sheatfish.
Sheathing (p. pr. & a.) Inclosing with a sheath; as, the sheathing leaves of grasses; the sheathing stipules of many polygonaceous plants.
Sheathing (n.) That which sheathes.
Sheathing (n.) The casing or covering of a ship's bottom and sides; the materials for such covering; as, copper sheathing.
Sheathing (n.) The first covering of boards on the outside wall of a frame house or on a timber roof; also, the material used for covering; ceiling boards in general.
Sheathless (a.) Without a sheath or case for covering; unsheathed.
Sheath-winged (a.) Having elytra, or wing cases, as a beetle.
Sheathy (a.) Forming or resembling a sheath or case.
Shea tree () An African sapotaceous tree (Bassia, / Butyrospermum, Parkii), from the seeds of which a substance resembling butter is obtained; the African butter tree.
Sheave (v.) A wheel having a groove in the rim for a rope to work in, and set in a block, mast, or the like; the wheel of a pulley.
Sheave (v. t.) To gather and bind into a sheaf or sheaves; hence, to collect.
Sheaved (a.) Made of straw.
Shebander (n.) A harbor master, or ruler of a port, in the East Indies.
Shebang (n.) A jocosely depreciative name for a dwelling or shop.
Shebeen (n.) A low public house; especially, a place where spirits and other excisable liquors are illegally and privately sold.
Shechinah (n.) See Shekinah.
Shecklaton (n.) A kind of gilt leather. See Checklaton.
Shed (n.) A slight or temporary structure built to shade or shelter something; a structure usually open in front; an outbuilding; a hut; as, a wagon shed; a wood shed.
Shed (imp. & p. p.) of Shed
Shedding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shed
Shed (v. t.) To separate; to divide.
Shed (v. t.) To part with; to throw off or give forth from one's self; to emit; to diffuse; to cause to emanate or flow; to pour forth or out; to spill; as, the sun sheds light; she shed tears; the clouds shed rain.
Shed (v. t.) To let fall; to throw off, as a natural covering of hair, feathers, shell; to cast; as, fowls shed their feathers; serpents shed their skins; trees shed leaves.
Shed (v. t.) To cause to flow off without penetrating; as, a tight roof, or covering of oiled cloth, sheeds water.
Shed (v. t.) To sprinkle; to intersperse; to cover.
Shed (v. t.) To divide, as the warp threads, so as to form a shed, or passageway, for the shuttle.
Shed (v. i.) To fall in drops; to pour.
Shed (v. i.) To let fall the parts, as seeds or fruit; to throw off a covering or envelope.
Shed (n.) A parting; a separation; a division.
Shed (n.) The act of shedding or spilling; -- used only in composition, as in bloodshed.
Shed (n.) That which parts, divides, or sheds; -- used in composition, as in watershed.
Shed (n.) The passageway between the threads of the warp through which the shuttle is thrown, having a sloping top and bottom made by raising and lowering the alternate threads.
Shedder (n.) One who, or that which, sheds; as, a shedder of blood; a shedder of tears.
Shedder (n.) A crab in the act of casting its shell, or immediately afterwards while still soft; -- applied especially to the edible crabs, which are most prized while in this state.
Shedding (n.) The act of shedding, separating, or casting off or out; as, the shedding of blood.
Shedding (n.) That which is shed, or cast off.
Shelfa (n.) Alt. of Shilfa
Shilfa (n.) The chaffinch; -- so named from its call note.
Sheeling (n.) A hut or small cottage in an expessed or a retired place (as on a mountain or at the seaside) such as is used by shepherds, fishermen, sportsmen, etc.; a summer cottage; also, a shed.
Sheely (n.) Same as Sheelfa.
Sheen (v. t.) Bright; glittering; radiant; fair; showy; sheeny.
Sheen (v. i.) To shine; to glisten.
Sheen (n.) Brightness; splendor; glitter.
Sheenly (adv.) Brightly.
Sheeny (a.) Bright; shining; radiant; sheen.
Sheep (n. sing. & pl.) Any one of several species of ruminants of the genus Ovis, native of the higher mountains of both hemispheres, but most numerous in Asia.
Sheep (n. sing. & pl.) A weak, bashful, silly fellow.
Sheep (n. sing. & pl.) Fig.: The people of God, as being under the government and protection of Christ, the great Shepherd.
Sheepback (n.) A rounded knoll of rock resembling the back of a sheep. -- produced by glacial action. Called also roche moutonnee; -- usually in the plural.
Sheepberry (n.) The edible fruit of a small North American tree of the genus Viburnum (V. Lentago), having white flowers in flat cymes; also, the tree itself. Called also nannyberry.
Sheepbite (v. i.) To bite or nibble like a sheep; hence, to practice petty thefts.
Sheepbiter (n.) One who practices petty thefts.
Sheepcot (n.) Alt. of Sheepcote
Sheepcote (n.) A small inclosure for sheep; a pen; a fold.
Sheep-faced (a.) Over-bashful; sheepish.
Sheepfold (n.) A fold or pen for sheep; a place where sheep are collected or confined.
Sheep-headed (a.) Silly; simple-minded; stupid.
Sheephook (n.) A hook fastened to pole, by which shepherds lay hold on the legs or necks of their sheep; a shepherd's crook.
Sheepish (a.) Of or pertaining to sheep.
Sheepish (a.) Like a sheep; bashful; over-modest; meanly or foolishly diffident; timorous to excess.
Sheepmaster (n.) A keeper or feeder of sheep; also, an owner of sheep.
Sheeprack (n.) The starling.
Sheep's-eye (n.) A modest, diffident look; a loving glance; -- commonly in the plural.
Sheep's-foot (n.) A printer's tool consisting of a metal bar formed into a hammer head at one end and a claw at the other, -- used as a lever and hammer.
Sheepshank (n.) A hitch by which a rope may be temporarily shortened.
Sheepshead (n.) A large and valuable sparoid food fish (Archosargus, / Diplodus, probatocephalus) found on the Atlantic coast of the United States. It often weighs from ten to twelve pounds.
Sheep-shearer (n.) One who shears, or cuts off the wool from, sheep.
Sheep-shearing (n.) Act of shearing sheep.
Sheep-shearing (n.) A feast at the time of sheep-shearing.
Sheepskin (n.) The skin of a sheep; or, leather prepared from it.
Sheepskin (n.) A diploma; -- so called because usually written or printed on parchment prepared from the skin of the sheep.
Sheepsplit (n.) A split of a sheepskin; one of the thin sections made by splitting a sheepskin with a cutting knife or machine.
Sheepy (a.) Resembling sheep; sheepish.
Sheer (v. i.) Bright; clear; pure; unmixed.
Sheer (v. i.) Very thin or transparent; -- applied to fabrics; as, sheer muslin.
Sheer (v. i.) Being only what it seems to be; obvious; simple; mere; downright; as, sheer folly; sheer nonsense.
Sheer (v. i.) Stright up and down; vertical; prpendicular.
Sheer (adv.) Clean; quite; at once.
Sheer (v. t.) To shear.
Sheered (imp. & p. p.) of Sheer
Sheering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sheer
Sheer (v. i.) To decline or deviate from the line of the proper course; to turn aside; to swerve; as, a ship sheers from her course; a horse sheers at a bicycle.
Sheer (n.) The longitudinal upward curvature of the deck, gunwale, and lines of a vessel, as when viewed from the side.
Sheer (n.) The position of a vessel riding at single anchor and swinging clear of it.
Sheer (n.) A turn or change in a course.
Sheer (n.) Shears See Shear.
Sheerly (adv.) At once; absolutely.
Sheerwater (n.) The shearwater.
Sheet (v. t.) In general, a large, broad piece of anything thin, as paper, cloth, etc.; a broad, thin portion of any substance; an expanded superficies.
Sheet (v. t.) A broad piece of cloth, usually linen or cotton, used for wrapping the body or for a covering; especially, one used as an article of bedding next to the body.
Sheet (v. t.) A broad piece of paper, whether folded or unfolded, whether blank or written or printed upon; hence, a letter; a newspaper, etc.
Sheet (v. t.) A single signature of a book or a pamphlet;
Sheet (v. t.) the book itself.
Sheet (v. t.) A broad, thinly expanded portion of metal or other substance; as, a sheet of copper, of glass, or the like; a plate; a leaf.
Sheet (v. t.) A broad expanse of water, or the like.
Sheet (v. t.) A sail.
Sheet (v. t.) An extensive bed of an eruptive rock intruded between, or overlying, other strata.
Sheet (v. t.) A rope or chain which regulates the angle of adjustment of a sail in relation in relation to the wind; -- usually attached to the lower corner of a sail, or to a yard or a boom.
Sheet (v. t.) The space in the forward or the after part of a boat where there are no rowers; as, fore sheets; stern sheets.
Sheeted (imp. & p. p.) of Sheet
Sheeting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sheet
Sheet (v. t.) To furnish with a sheet or sheets; to wrap in, or cover with, a sheet, or as with a sheet.
Sheet (v. t.) To expand, as a sheet.
Sheet anchor (v. t.) A large anchor stowed on shores outside the waist of a vessel; -- called also waist anchor. See the Note under Anchor.
Sheet anchor (v. t.) Anything regarded as a sure support or dependence in danger; the best hope or refuge.
Sheet cable () The cable belonging to the sheet anchor.
Sheet chain () A chain sheet cable.
Sheetfuls (pl. ) of Sheetful
Sheetful (n.) Enough to fill a sheet; as much as a sheet can hold.
Sheeting (n.) Cotton or linen cloth suitable for bed sheets. It is sometimes made of double width.
Sheeting (n.) A lining of planks or boards (rarely of metal) for protecting an embankment.
Sheeting (n.) The act or process of forming into sheets, or flat pieces; also, material made into sheets.
Sheik (n.) The head of an Arab family, or of a clan or a tribe; also, the chief magistrate of an Arab village. The name is also applied to Mohammedan ecclesiastics of a high grade.
Sheil (n.) Alt. of Sheiling
Sheiling (n.) See Sheeling.
Shekel (n.) An ancient weight and coin used by the Jews and by other nations of the same stock.
Shekel (n.) A jocose term for money.
Shekinah (n.) The visible majesty of the Divine Presence, especially when resting or dwelling between the cherubim on the mercy seat, in the Tabernacle, or in the Temple of Solomon; -- a term used in the Targums and by the later Jews, and adopted by Christians.
Sheld (a.) Variegated; spotted; speckled; piebald.
Sheldafle (n.) Alt. of Sheldaple
Sheldaple (n.) A chaffinch.
Sheldfowl (n.) The common sheldrake.
Sheldrake (n.) Any one of several species of large Old World ducks of the genus Tadorna and allied genera, especially the European and Asiatic species. (T. cornuta, / tadorna), which somewhat resembles a goose in form and habit, but breeds in burrows.
Sheldrake (n.) Any one of the American mergansers.
Shelduck (n.) The sheldrake.
Shelves (pl. ) of Shelf
Shelf (v. i.) A flat tablet or ledge of any material set horizontally at a distance from the floor, to hold objects of use or ornament.
Shelf (v. i.) A sand bank in the sea, or a rock, or ledge of rocks, rendering the water shallow, and dangerous to ships.
Shelf (v. i.) A stratum lying in a very even manner; a flat, projecting layer of rock.
Shelf (v. i.) A piece of timber running the whole length of a vessel inside the timberheads.
Shelfy (a.) Abounding in shelves; full of dangerous shallows.
Shelfy (a.) Full of strata of rock.
Shell (n.) A hard outside covering, as of a fruit or an animal.
Shell (n.) The covering, or outside part, of a nut; as, a hazelnut shell.
Shell (n.) A pod.
Shell (n.) The hard covering of an egg.
Shell (n.) The hard calcareous or chitinous external covering of mollusks, crustaceans, and some other invertebrates. In some mollusks, as the cuttlefishes, it is internal, or concealed by the mantle. Also, the hard covering of some vertebrates, as the armadillo, the tortoise, and the like.
Shell (n.) Hence, by extension, any mollusks having such a covering.
Shell (n.) A hollow projectile, of various shapes, adapted for a mortar or a cannon, and containing an explosive substance, ignited with a fuse or by percussion, by means of which the projectile is burst and its fragments scattered. See Bomb.
Shell (n.) The case which holds the powder, or charge of powder and shot, used with breechloading small arms.
Shell (n.) Any slight hollow structure; a framework, or exterior structure, regarded as not complete or filled in; as, the shell of a house.
Shell (n.) A coarse kind of coffin; also, a thin interior coffin inclosed in a more substantial one.
Shell (n.) An instrument of music, as a lyre, -- the first lyre having been made, it is said, by drawing strings over a tortoise shell.
Shell (n.) An engraved copper roller used in print works.
Shell (n.) The husks of cacao seeds, a decoction of which is often used as a substitute for chocolate, cocoa, etc.
Shell (n.) The outer frame or case of a block within which the sheaves revolve.
Shell (n.) A light boat the frame of which is covered with thin wood or with paper; as, a racing shell.
Shelled (imp. & p. p.) of Shell
Shelling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shell
Shell (v. t.) To strip or break off the shell of; to take out of the shell, pod, etc.; as, to shell nuts or pease; to shell oysters.
Shell (v. t.) To separate the kernels of (an ear of Indian corn, wheat, oats, etc.) from the cob, ear, or husk.
Shell (v. t.) To throw shells or bombs upon or into; to bombard; as, to shell a town.
Shell (v. i.) To fall off, as a shell, crust, etc.
Shell (v. i.) To cast the shell, or exterior covering; to fall out of the pod or husk; as, nuts shell in falling.
Shell (v. i.) To be disengaged from the ear or husk; as, wheat or rye shells in reaping.
Shell-lac (n.) Alt. of Shellac
Shellac (n.) See the Note under 2d Lac.
Shellapple (n.) See Sheldafle.
Shellbark (n.) A species of hickory (Carya alba) whose outer bark is loose and peeling; a shagbark; also, its nut.
Shelled (a.) Having a shell.
Sheller (n.) One who, or that which, shells; as, an oyster sheller; a corn sheller.
Shellfish (n.) Any aquatic animal whose external covering consists of a shell, either testaceous, as in oysters, clams, and other mollusks, or crustaceous, as in lobsters and crabs.
Shelling (n.) Groats; hulled oats.
Shell-less (a.) Having no shell.
Shellproof (a.) Capable of resisting bombs or other shells; bombproof.
Shellwork (n.) Work composed of shells, or adorned with them.
Shelly (a.) Abounding with shells; consisting of shells, or of a shell.
Shelter (n.) That which covers or defends from injury or annoyance; a protection; a screen.
Shelter (n.) One who protects; a guardian; a defender.
Shelter (n.) The state of being covered and protected; protection; security.
Sheltered (imp. & p. p.) of Shelter
Sheltering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shelter
Shelter (v. t.) To be a shelter for; to provide with a shelter; to cover from injury or annoyance; to shield; to protect.
Shelter (v. t.) To screen or cover from notice; to disguise.
Shelter (v. t.) To betake to cover, or to a safe place; -- used reflexively.
Shelter (v. i.) To take shelter.
Shelterless (a.) Destitute of shelter or protection.
Sheltery (a.) Affording shelter.
Sheltie (n.) Alt. of Shelty
Shelty (n.) A Shetland pony.
Shelve (v. t.) To furnish with shelves; as, to shelve a closet or a library.
Shelve (v. t.) To place on a shelf. Hence: To lay on the shelf; to put aside; to dismiss from service; to put off indefinitely; as, to shelve an officer; to shelve a claim.
Shelved (imp. & p. p.) of Shelve
Shelving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shelve
Shelve (v. i.) To incline gradually; to be slopping; as, the bottom shelves from the shore.
Shelving (a.) Sloping gradually; inclining; as, a shelving shore.
Shelving (n.) The act of fitting up shelves; as, the job of shelving a closet.
Shelving (n.) The act of laying on a shelf, or on the shelf; putting off or aside; as, the shelving of a claim.
Shelving (n.) Material for shelves; shelves, collectively.
Shelvy (a.) Sloping gradually; shelving.
Shemite (n.) A descendant of Shem.
Shemitic (a.) Alt. of Shemitish
Shemitish (a.) Of or pertaining to Shem, the son of Noah, or his descendants. See Semitic.
Shemitism (n.) See Semitism.
Shent (imp. & p. p.) of Shend
Shending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shend
Shend (n.) To injure, mar, spoil, or harm.
Shend (n.) To blame, reproach, or revile; to degrade, disgrace, or put to shame.
Shendful (a.) Destructive; ruinous; disgraceful.
Shendship (n.) Harm; ruin; also, reproach; disgrace.
Shent () obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Shend, for shendeth.
Shent (v. t.) To shend.
Sheol (n.) The place of departed spirits; Hades; also, the grave.
Shepen (n.) A stable; a shippen.
Shepherd (n.) A man employed in tending, feeding, and guarding sheep, esp. a flock grazing at large.
Shepherd (n.) The pastor of a church; one with the religious guidance of others.
Shepherded (imp. & p. p.) of Shepherd
Shepherding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shepherd
Shepherd (v. t.) To tend as a shepherd; to guard, herd, lead, or drive, as a shepherd.
Shepherdess (n.) A woman who tends sheep; hence, a rural lass.
Shepherdias (pl. ) of Shepherdia
Shepherdia (n.) A genus of shrubs having silvery scurfy leaves, and belonging to the same family as Elaeagnus; also, any plant of this genus. See Buffalo berry, under Buffalo.
Shepherdish (n.) Resembling a shepherd; suiting a shepherd; pastoral.
Shepherdism (n.) Pastoral life or occupation.
Shepherdling (n.) A little shepherd.
Shepherdly (a.) Resembling, or becoming to, a shepherd; pastoral; rustic.
Shepster (n.) A seamstress.
Sherbet (n.) A refreshing drink, common in the East, made of the juice of some fruit, diluted, sweetened, and flavored in various ways; as, orange sherbet; lemon sherbet; raspberry sherbet, etc.
Sherbet (n.) A flavored water ice.
Sherbet (n.) A preparation of bicarbonate of soda, tartaric acid, sugar, etc., variously flavored, for making an effervescing drink; -- called also sherbet powder.
Sherd (n.) A fragment; -- now used only in composition, as in potsherd. See Shard.
Shereef (n.) Alt. of Sherif
Sherif (n.) A member of an Arab princely family descended from Mohammed through his son-in-law Ali and daughter Fatima. The Grand Shereef is the governor of Mecca.
Sheriat (n.) The sacred law of the Turkish empire.
Sheriff (n.) The chief officer of a shire or county, to whom is intrusted the execution of the laws, the serving of judicial writs and processes, and the preservation of the peace.
Sheriffalty (n.) Alt. of Sheriffwick
Sheriffdom (n.) Alt. of Sheriffwick
Sheriffry (n.) Alt. of Sheriffwick
Sheriffship (n.) Alt. of Sheriffwick
Sheriffwick (n.) The office or jurisdiction of sheriff. See Shrievalty.
Shern (n.) See Shearn.
Sherris (n.) Sherry.
Sherry (n.) A Spanish light-colored dry wine, made in Andalusia. As prepared for commerce it is colored a straw color or a deep amber by mixing with it cheap wine boiled down.
Sherryvallies (n. pl.) Trousers or overalls of thick cloth or leather, buttoned on the outside of each leg, and generally worn to protect other trousers when riding on horseback.
Shet (imp.) of Shet
Shette () of Shet
Shet (p. pr.) of Shet
Shetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shet
Shet (v. t. & i.) To shut.
Shete (v. t. & i.) To shoot.
Sheth (n.) The part of a plow which projects downward beneath the beam, for holding the share and other working parts; -- also called standard, or post.
Shetland pony () One of a small, hardy breed of horses, with long mane and tail, which originated in the Shetland Islands; a sheltie.
Shew (v. t. & i.) See Show.
Shew (n.) Show.
Shewbread () See Showbread.
Shewel (n.) A scarecrow.
Shewer (n.) One who shews. See Shower.
Shewn () p. p. of Shew.
Shiah (n.) Same as Shiite.
Shibboleth (n.) A word which was made the criterion by which to distinguish the Ephraimites from the Gileadites. The Ephraimites, not being able to pronounce sh, called the word sibboleth. See Judges xii.
Shibboleth (n.) Also in an extended sense.
Shibboleth (n.) Hence, the criterion, test, or watchword of a party; a party cry or pet phrase.
Shide (n.) A thin board; a billet of wood; a splinter.
Shie (v. t.) See Shy, to throw.
Shied () imp. & p. p. of Shy.
Shiel (n.) A sheeling.
Shield (n.) A broad piece of defensive armor, carried on the arm, -- formerly in general use in war, for the protection of the body. See Buckler.
Shield (n.) Anything which protects or defends; defense; shelter; protection.
Shield (n.) Figuratively, one who protects or defends.
Shield (n.) In lichens, a Hardened cup or disk surrounded by a rim and containing the fructification, or asci.
Shield (n.) The escutcheon or field on which are placed the bearings in coats of arms. Cf. Lozenge. See Illust. of Escutcheon.
Shield (n.) A framework used to protect workmen in making an adit under ground, and capable of being pushed along as excavation progresses.
Shield (n.) A spot resembling, or having the form of, a shield.
Shield (n.) A coin, the old French crown, or ecu, having on one side the figure of a shield.
Shielded (imp. & p. p.) of Shield
Shielding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shield
Shield (n.) To cover with, or as with, a shield; to cover from danger; to defend; to protect from assault or injury.
Shield (n.) To ward off; to keep off or out.
Shield (n.) To avert, as a misfortune; hence, as a supplicatory exclamation, forbid!
Shield-bearer (n.) One who, or that which, carries a shield.
Shield-bearer (n.) Any small moth of the genus Aspidisca, whose larva makes a shieldlike covering for itself out of bits of leaves.
Shielddrake (n.) A sheldrake.
Shieldless (a.) Destitute of a shield, or of protection.
Shieldtail (n.) Any species of small burrowing snakes of the family Uropeltidae, native of Ceylon and Southern Asia. They have a small mouth which can not be dilated.
Shieling (n.) A hut or shelter for shepherds of fishers. See Sheeling.
Shifted (imp. & p. p.) of Shift
Shifting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shift
Shift (v. t.) To divide; to distribute; to apportion.
Shift (v. t.) To change the place of; to move or remove from one place to another; as, to shift a burden from one shoulder to another; to shift the blame.
Shift (v. t.) To change the position of; to alter the bearings of; to turn; as, to shift the helm or sails.
Shift (v. t.) To exchange for another of the same class; to remove and to put some similar thing in its place; to change; as, to shift the clothes; to shift the scenes.
Shift (v. t.) To change the clothing of; -- used reflexively.
Shift (v. t.) To put off or out of the way by some expedient.
Shiff (v. i.) To divide; to distribute.
Shiff (v. i.) To make a change or changes; to change position; to move; to veer; to substitute one thing for another; -- used in the various senses of the transitive verb.
Shiff (v. i.) To resort to expedients for accomplishing a purpose; to contrive; to manage.
Shiff (v. i.) To practice indirect or evasive methods.
Shiff (v. i.) To slip to one side of a ship, so as to destroy the equilibrum; -- said of ballast or cargo; as, the cargo shifted.
Shift (v. t.) The act of shifting.
Shift (v. t.) The act of putting one thing in the place of another, or of changing the place of a thing; change; substitution.
Shift (v. t.) Something frequently shifted; especially, a woman's under-garment; a chemise.
Shift (v. t.) The change of one set of workmen for another; hence, a spell, or turn, of work; also, a set of workmen who work in turn with other sets; as, a night shift.
Shift (v. t.) In building, the extent, or arrangement, of the overlapping of plank, brick, stones, etc., that are placed in courses so as to break joints.
Shift (v. t.) A breaking off and dislocation of a seam; a fault.
Shift (v. t.) A change of the position of the hand on the finger board, in playing the violin.
Shiftable (a.) Admitting of being shifted.
Shifter (n.) One who, or that which, shifts; one who plays tricks or practices artifice; a cozener.
Shifter (n.) An assistant to the ship's cook in washing, steeping, and shifting the salt provisions.
Shifter (n.) An arrangement for shifting a belt sidewise from one pulley to another.
Shifter (n.) A wire for changing a loop from one needle to another, as in narrowing, etc.
Shiftiness (n.) The quality or state of being shifty.
Shifting (a.) Changing in place, position, or direction; varying; variable; fickle; as, shifting winds; shifting opinions or principles.
Shifting (a.) Adapted or used for shifting anything.
Shiftingly (adv.) In a shifting manner.
Shiftless (a.) Destitute of expedients, or not using successful expedients; characterized by failure, especially by failure to provide for one's own support, through negligence or incapacity; hence, lazy; improvident; thriftless; as, a shiftless fellow; shiftless management.
Shifty (a.) Full of, or ready with, shifts; fertile in expedients or contrivance.
Shiite (n.) Alt. of Shiah
Shiah (n.) A member of that branch of the Mohammedans to which the Persians belong. They reject the first three caliphs, and consider Ali as being the first and only rightful successor of Mohammed. They do not acknowledge the Sunna, or body of traditions respecting Mohammed, as any part of the law, and on these accounts are treated as heretics by the Sunnites, or orthodox Mohammedans.
Shikaree (n.) Alt. of Shikari
Shikari (n.) A sportsman; esp., a native hunter.
Shilf (n.) Straw.
Shill (v. t.) To shell.
Shill (v. t.) To put under cover; to sheal.
Shillalah (n.) Alt. of Shillelah
Shillelah (n.) An oaken sapling or cudgel; any cudgel; -- so called from Shillelagh, a place in Ireland of that name famous for its oaks.
Shilling (n.) A silver coin, and money of account, of Great Britain and its dependencies, equal to twelve pence, or the twentieth part of a pound, equivalent to about twenty-four cents of the United States currency.
Shilling (n.) In the United States, a denomination of money, differing in value in different States. It is not now legally recognized.
Shilling (n.) The Spanish real, of the value of one eight of a dollar, or 12/ cets; -- formerly so called in New York and some other States. See Note under 2.
Shill-I-shall-I (adv.) Alt. of Shilly-shally
Shilly-shally (adv.) In an irresolute, undecided, or hesitating manner.
Shilly-shally (v. i.) To hesitate; to act in an irresolute manner; hence, to occupy one's self with trifles.
Shilly-shally (n.) Irresolution; hesitation; also, occupation with trifles.
Shiloh (n.) A word used by Jacob on his deathbed, and interpreted variously, as "the Messiah," or as the city "Shiloh," or as "Rest."
Shily (adv.) See Shyly.
Shim (n.) A kind of shallow plow used in tillage to break the ground, and clear it of weeds.
Shim (n.) A thin piece of metal placed between two parts to make a fit.
Shimmered (imp. & p. p.) of Shimmer
Shimmering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shimmer
Shimmer (v. i.) To shine with a tremulous or intermittent light; to shine faintly; to gleam; to glisten; to glimmer.
Shimmer (n.) A faint, tremulous light; a gleaming; a glimmer.
Shimmering (n.) A gleam or glimmering.
Shimmy (n.) A chemise.
Shin (n.) The front part of the leg below the knee; the front edge of the shin bone; the lower part of the leg; the shank.
Shin (n.) A fish plate for rails.
Shinned (imp. & p. p.) of Shin
Shinning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shin
Shin (v. i.) To climb a mast, tree, rope, or the like, by embracing it alternately with the arms and legs, without help of steps, spurs, or the like; -- used with up; as, to shin up a mast.
Shin (v. i.) To run about borrowing money hastily and temporarily, as for the payment of one's notes at the bank.
Shin (v. t.) To climb (a pole, etc.) by shinning up.
Shindle (n.) A shingle; also, a slate for roofing.
Shindle (v. t.) To cover or roof with shindles.
Shindies (pl. ) of Shindy
Shindy (n.) An uproar or disturbance; a spree; a row; a riot.
Shindy (n.) Hockey; shinney.
Shindy (n.) A fancy or liking.
Shone (imp. & p. p.) of Shine
Shined () of Shine
Shining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shine
Shine (v. i.) To emit rays of light; to give light; to beam with steady radiance; to exhibit brightness or splendor; as, the sun shines by day; the moon shines by night.
Shine (v. i.) To be bright by reflection of light; to gleam; to be glossy; as, to shine like polished silver.
Shine (v. i.) To be effulgent in splendor or beauty.
Shine (v. i.) To be eminent, conspicuous, or distinguished; to exhibit brilliant intellectual powers; as, to shine in courts; to shine in conversation.
Shine (v. t.) To cause to shine, as a light.
Shine (v. t.) To make bright; to cause to shine by reflected light; as, in hunting, to shine the eyes of a deer at night by throwing a light on them.
Shine (n.) The quality or state of shining; brightness; luster, gloss; polish; sheen.
Shine (n.) Sunshine; fair weather.
Shine (n.) A liking for a person; a fancy.
Shine (n.) Caper; antic; row.
Shine (v. i.) Shining; sheen.
Shiner (n.) That which shines.
Shiner (n.) A luminary.
Shiner (n.) A bright piece of money.
Shiner (n.) Any one of numerous species of small freshwater American cyprinoid fishes, belonging to Notropis, or Minnilus, and allied genera; as the redfin (Notropis megalops), and the golden shiner (Notemigonus chrysoleucus) of the Eastern United States; also loosely applied to various other silvery fishes, as the dollar fish, or horsefish, menhaden, moonfish, sailor's choice, and the sparada.
Shiner (n.) The common Lepisma, or furniture bug.
Shiness (n.) See Shyness.
Shingle (n.) Round, water-worn, and loose gravel and pebbles, or a collection of roundish stones, such as are common on the seashore and elsewhere.
Shingle (n.) A piece of wood sawed or rived thin and small, with one end thinner than the other, -- used in covering buildings, especially roofs, the thick ends of one row overlapping the thin ends of the row below.
Shingle (n.) A sign for an office or a shop; as, to hang out one's shingle.
Shingled (imp. &. p. p.) of Shingle
Shingling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shingle
Shingle (v. t.) To cover with shingles; as, to shingle a roof.
Shingle (v. t.) To cut, as hair, so that the ends are evenly exposed all over the head, as shingles on a roof.
Shingle (v. t.) To subject to the process of shindling, as a mass of iron from the pudding furnace.
Shingler (n.) One who shingles.
Shingler (n.) A machine for shingling puddled iron.
Shingles (n.) A kind of herpes (Herpes zoster) which spreads half way around the body like a girdle, and is usually attended with violent neuralgic pain.
Shingling (n.) The act of covering with shingles; shingles, collectively; a covering made of shingles.
Shingling (n.) The process of expelling scoriae and other impurities by hammering and squeezing, in the production of wrought iron.
Shingly (a.) Abounding with shingle, or gravel.
Shinhopple (n.) The hobblebush.
Shining (a.) Emitting light, esp. in a continuous manner; radiant; as, shining lamps; also, bright by the reflection of light; as, shining armor.
Shining (a.) Splendid; illustrious; brilliant; distinguished; conspicious; as, a shining example of charity.
Shining (a.) Having the surface smooth and polished; -- said of leaves, the surfaces of shells, etc.
Shining (n.) Emission or reflection of light.
Shiningness (n.) Brightness.
Shinney (n.) The game of hockey; -- so called because of the liability of the players to receive blows on the shin.
Shinplaster (n.) Formerly, a jocose term for a bank note greatly depreciated in value; also, for paper money of a denomination less than a dollar.
Shinto (n.) Alt. of Shintiism
Shintiism (n.) One of the two great systems of religious belief in Japan. Its essence is ancestor worship, and sacrifice to dead heroes.
Shintoist (n.) An adherent of Shintoism.
Shinty (n.) A Scotch game resembling hockey; also, the club used in the game.
Shiny (superl.) Bright; luminous; clear; unclouded.
-ship (n.) A suffix denoting state, office, dignity, profession, or art; as in lordship, friendship, chancellorship, stewardship, horsemanship.
Ship (n.) Pay; reward.
Ship (n.) Any large seagoing vessel.
Ship (n.) Specifically, a vessel furnished with a bowsprit and three masts (a mainmast, a foremast, and a mizzenmast), each of which is composed of a lower mast, a topmast, and a topgallant mast, and square-rigged on all masts. See Illustation in Appendix.
Ship (n.) A dish or utensil (originally fashioned like the hull of a ship) used to hold incense.
Shipped (imp. & p. p.) of Ship
Shipping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ship
Ship (v. t.) To put on board of a ship, or vessel of any kind, for transportation; to send by water.
Ship (v. t.) By extension, in commercial usage, to commit to any conveyance for transportation to a distance; as, to ship freight by railroad.
Ship (v. t.) Hence, to send away; to get rid of.
Ship (v. t.) To engage or secure for service on board of a ship; as, to ship seamen.
Ship (v. t.) To receive on board ship; as, to ship a sea.
Ship (v. t.) To put in its place; as, to ship the tiller or rudder.
Ship (v. i.) To engage to serve on board of a vessel; as, to ship on a man-of-war.
Ship (v. i.) To embark on a ship.
Shipboard (n.) A ship's side; hence, by extension, a ship; -- found chiefly in adverbial phrases; as, on shipboard; a shipboard.
Shipbuilder (n.) A person whose occupation is to construct ships and other vessels; a naval architect; a shipwright.
Shipbuilding (n.) Naval architecturel the art of constructing ships and other vessels.
Shipfuls (pl. ) of Shipful
Shipful (n.) As much or as many as a ship will hold; enough to fill a ship.
Shipholder (n.) A shipowner.
Shipless (a.) Destitute of ships.
Shiplet (n.) A little ship.
Shipload (n.) The load, or cargo, of a ship.
Shipmen (pl. ) of Shipman
Shipman (n.) A seaman, or sailor.
Shipmaster (n.) The captain, master, or commander of a ship.
Shipmate (n.) One who serves on board of the same ship with another; a fellow sailor.
Shipment (n.) The act or process of shipping; as, he was engaged in the shipment of coal for London; an active shipment of wheat from the West.
Shipment (n.) That which is shipped.
Shipowner (n.) Owner of a ship or ships.
Shippen (n.) A stable; a cowhouse.
Shipper (n.) One who sends goods from one place to another not in the same city or town, esp. one who sends goods by water.
Shipping (a.) Relating to ships, their ownership, transfer, or employment; as, shiping concerns.
Shipping (a.) Relating to, or concerned in, the forwarding of goods; as, a shipping clerk.
Shipping (n.) The act of one who, or of that which, ships; as, the shipping of flour to Liverpool.
Shipping (n.) The collective body of ships in one place, or belonging to one port, country, etc.; vessels, generally; tonnage.
Shipping (n.) Navigation.
Shippon (n.) A cowhouse; a shippen.
Ship-rigged (a.) Rigged like a ship, that is, having three masts, each with square sails.
Shipshape (a.) Arranged in a manner befitting a ship; hence, trim; tidy; orderly.
Shipshape (adv.) In a shipshape or seamanlike manner.
Shipworm (n.) Any long, slender, worm-shaped bivalve mollusk of Teredo and allied genera. The shipworms burrow in wood, and are destructive to wooden ships, piles of wharves, etc. See Teredo.
Shipwreck (n.) The breaking in pieces, or shattering, of a ship or other vessel by being cast ashore or driven against rocks, shoals, etc., by the violence of the winds and waves.
Shipwreck (n.) A ship wrecked or destroyed upon the water, or the parts of such a ship; wreckage.
Shipwreck (n.) Fig.: Destruction; ruin; irretrievable loss.
Shipwrecked (imp. & p. p.) of Shipwreck
Shipwrecking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shipwreck
Shipwreck (v. t.) To destroy, as a ship at sea, by running ashore or on rocks or sandbanks, or by the force of wind and waves in a tempest.
Shipwreck (v. t.) To cause to experience shipwreck, as sailors or passengers. Hence, to cause to suffer some disaster or loss; to destroy or ruin, as if by shipwreck; to wreck; as, to shipwreck a business.
Shipwright (n.) One whose occupation is to construct ships; a builder of ships or other vessels.
Shipyard (n.) A yard, place, or inclosure where ships are built or repaired.
Shiraz (n.) A kind of Persian wine; -- so called from the place whence it is brought.
Shire (n.) A portion of Great Britain originally under the supervision of an earl; a territorial division, usually identical with a county, but sometimes limited to a smaller district; as, Wiltshire, Yorkshire, Richmondshire, Hallamshire.
Shire (n.) A division of a State, embracing several contiguous townships; a county.
Shirked (imp. & p. p.) of Shirk
Shirking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shirk
Shirk (v. t.) To procure by petty fraud and trickery; to obtain by mean solicitation.
Shirk (v. t.) To avoid; to escape; to neglect; -- implying unfaithfulness or fraud; as, to shirk duty.
Shirk (v. i.) To live by shifts and fraud; to shark.
Shirk (v. i.) To evade an obligation; to avoid the performance of duty, as by running away.
Shirk (n.) One who lives by shifts and tricks; one who avoids the performance of duty or labor.
Shirker (n.) One who shirks.
Shirky (a.) Disposed to shirk.
Shirl (a.) Shrill.
Shirl (n.) See Schorl.
Shirley (n.) The bullfinch.
Shirr (n.) A series of close parallel runnings which are drawn up so as to make the material between them set full by gatherings; -- called also shirring, and gauging.
Shirred (a.) Made or gathered into a shirr; as, a shirred bonnet.
Shirred (a.) Broken into an earthen dish and baked over the fire; -- said of eggs.
Shirt (n.) A loose under-garment for the upper part of the body, made of cotton, linen, or other material; -- formerly used of the under-garment of either sex, now commonly restricted to that worn by men and boys.
Shirted (imp. & p. p.) of Shirt
Shirting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shirt
Shirt (v. t. & i.) To cover or clothe with a shirt, or as with a shirt.
Shirting (n.) Cloth, specifically cotton cloth, suitable for making shirts.
Shirtless (a.) Not having or wearing a shirt.
Shist () Alt. of Shistose
Shistose () See Shist, Schistose.
Shittah (n.) Alt. of Shittah tree
Shittah tree (n.) A tree that furnished the precious wood of which the ark, tables, altars, boards, etc., of the Jewish tabernacle were made; -- now believed to have been the wood of the Acacia Seyal, which is hard, fine grained, and yellowish brown in color.
Shittim (n.) Alt. of Shittim wood
Shittim wood (n.) The wood of the shittah tree.
Shittle (n.) A shuttle.
Shittle (a.) Wavering; unsettled; inconstant.
Shittlecock (n.) A shuttlecock.
Shittleness (n.) Instability; inconstancy.
Shive (n.) A slice; as, a shive of bread.
Shive (n.) A thin piece or fragment; specifically, one of the scales or pieces of the woody part of flax removed by the operation of breaking.
Shive (n.) A thin, flat cork used for stopping a wide-mouthed bottle; also, a thin wooden bung for casks.
Shiver (n.) One of the small pieces, or splinters, into which a brittle thing is broken by sudden violence; -- generally used in the plural.
Shiver (n.) A thin slice; a shive.
Shiver (n.) A variety of blue slate.
Shiver (n.) A sheave or small wheel in a pulley.
Shiver (n.) A small wedge, as for fastening the bolt of a window shutter.
Shiver (n.) A spindle.
Shivered (imp. & p. p.) of Shiver
Shivering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shiver
Shiver (v. t.) To break into many small pieces, or splinters; to shatter; to dash to pieces by a blow; as, to shiver a glass goblet.
Shiver (v. i.) To separate suddenly into many small pieces or parts; to be shattered.
Shiver (v. i.) To tremble; to vibrate; to quiver; to shake, as from cold or fear.
Shiver (v. t.) To cause to shake or tremble, as a sail, by steering close to the wind.
Shiver (n.) The act of shivering or trembling.
Shiveringly (adv.) In a shivering manner.
Shiver-spar (n.) A variety of calcite, so called from its slaty structure; -- called also slate spar.
Shivery (a.) Tremulous; shivering.
Shivery (a.) Easily broken; brittle; shattery.
Shoad (n.) A train of vein material mixed with rubbish; fragments of ore which have become separated by the action of water or the weather, and serve to direct in the discovery of mines.
Shoading (n.) The tracing of veins of metal by shoads.
Shoal (n.) A great multitude assembled; a crowd; a throng; -- said especially of fish; as, a shoal of bass.
Shoaled (imp. & p. p.) of Shoal
Shoaling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shoal
Shoal (v. i.) To assemble in a multitude; to throng; as, the fishes shoaled about the place.
Shoal (a.) Having little depth; shallow; as, shoal water.
Shoal (n.) A place where the water of a sea, lake, river, pond, etc., is shallow; a shallow.
Shoal (n.) A sandbank or bar which makes the water shoal.
Shoal (v. i.) To become shallow; as, the color of the water shows where it shoals.
Shoal (v. t.) To cause to become more shallow; to come to a more shallow part of; as, a ship shoals her water by advancing into that which is less deep.
Shoaliness (n.) The quality or state of being shoaly; little depth of water; shallowness.
Shoaling (a.) Becoming shallow gradually.
Shoaly (a.) Full of shoals, or shallow places.
Shoar (n.) A prop. See 3d Shore.
Shoat (n.) A young hog. Same as Shote.
Shock (n.) A pile or assemblage of sheaves of grain, as wheat, rye, or the like, set up in a field, the sheaves varying in number from twelve to sixteen; a stook.
Shock (n.) A lot consisting of sixty pieces; -- a term applied in some Baltic ports to loose goods.
Shock (v. t.) To collect, or make up, into a shock or shocks; to stook; as, to shock rye.
Shock (v. i.) To be occupied with making shocks.
Shock (n.) A quivering or shaking which is the effect of a blow, collision, or violent impulse; a blow, impact, or collision; a concussion; a sudden violent impulse or onset.
Shock (n.) A sudden agitation of the mind or feelings; a sensation of pleasure or pain caused by something unexpected or overpowering; also, a sudden agitating or overpowering event.
Shock (n.) A sudden depression of the vital forces of the entire body, or of a port of it, marking some profound impression produced upon the nervous system, as by severe injury, overpowering emotion, or the like.
Shock (n.) The sudden convulsion or contraction of the muscles, with the feeling of a concussion, caused by the discharge, through the animal system, of electricity from a charged body.
Shocked (imp. & p. p.) of Shock
Shocking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shock
Shock (v.) To give a shock to; to cause to shake or waver; hence, to strike against suddenly; to encounter with violence.
Shock (v.) To strike with surprise, terror, horror, or disgust; to cause to recoil; as, his violence shocked his associates.
Shock (v. i.) To meet with a shock; to meet in violent encounter.
Shock (n.) A dog with long hair or shag; -- called also shockdog.
Shock (n.) A thick mass of bushy hair; as, a head covered with a shock of sandy hair.
Shock (a.) Bushy; shaggy; as, a shock hair.
Shockdog (n.) See 7th Shock, 1.
Shock-head (a.) Shock-headed.
Shock-headed (a.) Having a thick and bushy head of hair.
Shocking (a.) Causing to shake or tremble, as by a blow; especially, causing to recoil with horror or disgust; extremely offensive or disgusting.
Shod (imp. & p. p.) f Shoe.
Shoddy (v. t.) A fibrous material obtained by "deviling," or tearing into fibers, refuse woolen goods, old stockings, rags, druggets, etc. See Mungo.
Shoddy (v. t.) A fabric of inferior quality made of, or containing a large amount of, shoddy.
Shoddy (a.) Made wholly or in part of shoddy; containing shoddy; as, shoddy cloth; shoddy blankets; hence, colloquially, not genuine; sham; pretentious; as, shoddy aristocracy.
Shoddyism (n.) The quality or state of being shoddy.
Shode (v. t.) The parting of the hair on the head.
Shode (v. t.) The top of the head; the head.
Shode () Alt. of Shoding
Shoding () See Shoad, Shoading.
Shoder (n.) A package of gold beater's skins in which gold is subjected to the second process of beating.
Shoes (pl. ) of Shoe
Shoon (pl. ) of Shoe
Shoe (n.) A covering for the human foot, usually made of leather, having a thick and somewhat stiff sole and a lighter top. It differs from a boot on not extending so far up the leg.
Shoe (n.) Anything resembling a shoe in form, position, or use.
Shoe (n.) A plate or rim of iron nailed to the hoof of an animal to defend it from injury.
Shoe (n.) A band of iron or steel, or a ship of wood, fastened to the bottom of the runner of a sleigh, or any vehicle which slides on the snow.
Shoe (n.) A drag, or sliding piece of wood or iron, placed under the wheel of a loaded vehicle, to retard its motion in going down a hill.
Shoe (n.) The part of a railroad car brake which presses upon the wheel to retard its motion.
Shoe (n.) A trough-shaped or spout-shaped member, put at the bottom of the water leader coming from the eaves gutter, so as to throw the water off from the building.
Shoe (n.) The trough or spout for conveying the grain from the hopper to the eye of the millstone.
Shoe (n.) An inclined trough in an ore-crushing mill.
Shoe (n.) An iron socket or plate to take the thrust of a strut or rafter.
Shoe (n.) An iron socket to protect the point of a wooden pile.
Shoe (n.) A plate, or notched piece, interposed between a moving part and the stationary part on which it bears, to take the wear and afford means of adjustment; -- called also slipper, and gib.
Shod (imp. & p. p.) of Shoe
Shoeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shoe
Shoe (n.) To furnish with a shoe or shoes; to put a shoe or shoes on; as, to shoe a horse, a sled, an anchor.
Shoe (n.) To protect or ornament with something which serves the purpose of a shoe; to tip.
Shoebill (n.) A large African wading bird (Balaeniceps rex) allied to the storks and herons, and remarkable for its enormous broad swollen bill. It inhabits the valley of the White Nile. See Illust. (l.) of Beak.
Shoeblack (n.) One who polishes shoes.
Shoehorn (n.) Alt. of Shoeing-horn
Shoeing-horn (n.) A curved piece of polished horn, wood, or metal used to facilitate the entrance of the foot into a shoe.
Shoeing-horn (n.) Anything by which a transaction is facilitated; a medium; -- by way of contempt.
Shoeing-horn (n.) Anything which draws on or allures; an inducement.
Shoeless (a.) Destitute of shoes.
Shoemaker (n.) One whose occupation it is to make shoes and boots.
Shoemaker (n.) The threadfish.
Shoemaker (n.) The runner, 12.
Shoemaking (n.) The business of a shoemaker.
Shoer (n.) One who fits shoes to the feet; one who furnishes or puts on shoes; as, a shoer of horses.
Shog (n.) A shock; a jog; a violent concussion or impulse.
Shog (v. t.) To shake; to shock.
Shog (v. i.) To jog; to move on.
Shoggle (v. t.) To joggle.
Shogun (n.) A title originally conferred by the Mikado on the military governor of the eastern provinces of Japan. By gradual usurpation of power the Shoguns (known to foreigners as Tycoons) became finally the virtual rulers of Japan. The title was abolished in 1867.
Shogunate (n.) The office or dignity of a Shogun.
Shola (n.) See Sola.
Shole (n.) A plank fixed beneath an object, as beneath the rudder of a vessel, to protect it from injury; a plank on the ground under the end of a shore or the like.
Shole (n.) See Shoal.
Shonde (n.) Harm; disgrace; shame.
Shone () imp. & p. p. of Shine.
Shoo (interj.) Begone; away; -- an expression used in frightening away animals, especially fowls.
Shooi (n.) The Richardson's skua (Stercorarius parasiticus);- so called from its cry.
Shook () imp. & obs. or poet. p. p. of Shake.
Shook (n.) A set of staves and headings sufficient in number for one hogshead, cask, barrel, or the like, trimmed, and bound together in compact form.
Shook (n.) A set of boards for a sugar box.
Shook (n.) The parts of a piece of house furniture, as a bedstead, packed together.
Shook (v. t.) To pack, as staves, in a shook.
Shoon (n.) pl. of Shoe.
Shoop () imp. of Shape. Shaped.
Shoot (n.) An inclined plane, either artificial or natural, down which timber, coal, etc., are caused to slide; also, a narrow passage, either natural or artificial, in a stream, where the water rushes rapidly; esp., a channel, having a swift current, connecting the ends of a bend in the stream, so as to shorten the course.
Shot (imp. & p. p.) of Shoot
Shooting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shoot
Shotten () of Shoot
Shoot (v. i.) To let fly, or cause to be driven, with force, as an arrow or a bullet; -- followed by a word denoting the missile, as an object.
Shoot (v. i.) To discharge, causing a missile to be driven forth; -- followed by a word denoting the weapon or instrument, as an object; -- often with off; as, to shoot a gun.
Shoot (v. i.) To strike with anything shot; to hit with a missile; often, to kill or wound with a firearm; -- followed by a word denoting the person or thing hit, as an object.
Shoot (v. i.) To send out or forth, especially with a rapid or sudden motion; to cast with the hand; to hurl; to discharge; to emit.
Shoot (v. i.) To push or thrust forward; to project; to protrude; -- often with out; as, a plant shoots out a bud.
Shoot (v. i.) To plane straight; to fit by planing.
Shoot (v. i.) To pass rapidly through, over, or under; as, to shoot a rapid or a bridge; to shoot a sand bar.
Shoot (v. i.) To variegate as if by sprinkling or intermingling; to color in spots or patches.
Shoot (v. i.) To cause an engine or weapon to discharge a missile; -- said of a person or an agent; as, they shot at a target; he shoots better than he rides.
Shoot (v. i.) To discharge a missile; -- said of an engine or instrument; as, the gun shoots well.
Shoot (v. i.) To be shot or propelled forcibly; -- said of a missile; to be emitted or driven; to move or extend swiftly, as if propelled; as, a shooting star.
Shoot (v. i.) To penetrate, as a missile; to dart with a piercing sensation; as, shooting pains.
Shoot (v. i.) To feel a quick, darting pain; to throb in pain.
Shoot (v. i.) To germinate; to bud; to sprout.
Shoot (v. i.) To grow; to advance; as, to shoot up rapidly.
Shoot (v. i.) To change form suddenly; especially, to solidify.
Shoot (v. i.) To protrude; to jut; to project; to extend; as, the land shoots into a promontory.
Shoot (v. i.) To move ahead by force of momentum, as a sailing vessel when the helm is put hard alee.
Shoot (n.) The act of shooting; the discharge of a missile; a shot; as, the shoot of a shuttle.
Shoot (n.) A young branch or growth.
Shoot (n.) A rush of water; a rapid.
Shoot (n.) A vein of ore running in the same general direction as the lode.
Shoot (n.) A weft thread shot through the shed by the shuttle; a pick.
Shoot (n.) A shoat; a young hog.
Shooter (n.) One who shoots, as an archer or a gunner.
Shooter (n.) That which shoots.
Shooter (n.) A firearm; as, a five-shooter.
Shooter (n.) A shooting star.
Shooting (n.) The act of one who, or that which, shoots; as, the shooting of an archery club; the shooting of rays of light.
Shooting (n.) A wounding or killing with a firearm; specifically (Sporting), the killing of game; as, a week of shooting.
Shooting (n.) A sensation of darting pain; as, a shooting in one's head.
Shooting (a.) Of or pertaining to shooting; for shooting; darting.
Shooty (a.) Sprouting or coming up freely and regularly.
Shop () imp. of Shape. Shaped.
Shop (n.) A building or an apartment in which goods, wares, drugs, etc., are sold by retail.
Shop (n.) A building in which mechanics or artisans work; as, a shoe shop; a car shop.
Shopped (imp. & p. p.) of Shop
Shopping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shop
Shop (v. i.) To visit shops for the purpose of purchasing goods.
Shopboard (n.) A bench or board on which work is performed; a workbench.
Shopbook (n.) A book in which a tradesman keeps his accounts.
Shopboy (n.) A boy employed in a shop.
Shopen () p. p. of Shape.
Shopgirl (n.) A girl employed in a shop.
Shopkeeper (n.) A trader who sells goods in a shop, or by retail; -- in distinction from one who sells by wholesale.
Shoplifter (n.) One who steals anything in a shop, or takes goods privately from a shop; one who, under pretense of buying goods, takes occasion to steal.
Shoplifting (n.) Larceny committed in a shop; the stealing of anything from a shop.
Shoplike (a.) Suiting a shop; vulgar.
Shopmaid (n.) A shopgirl.
Shopmen (pl. ) of Shopman
Shopman (n.) A shopkeeper; a retailer.
Shopman (n.) One who serves in a shop; a salesman.
Shopman (n.) One who works in a shop or a factory.
Shopper (n.) One who shops.
Shoppish (a.) Having the appearance or qualities of a shopkeeper, or shopman.
Shoppy (a.) Abounding with shops.
Shoppy (a.) Of or pertaining to shops, or one's own shop or business; as, shoppy talk.
Shopshift (n.) The trick of a shopkeeper; deception.
Shopwalker (n.) One who walks about in a shop as an overseer and director. Cf. Floorwalker.
Shopwomen (pl. ) of Shopwoman
Shopwoman (n.) A woman employed in a shop.
Shopworn (a.) Somewhat worn or damaged by having been kept for a time in a shop.
Shorage (n.) Duty paid for goods brought on shore.
Shore () imp. of Shear.
Shore (n.) A sewer.
Shore (n.) A prop, as a timber, placed as a brace or support against the side of a building or other structure; a prop placed beneath anything, as a beam, to prevent it from sinking or sagging.
Shored (imp. & p. p.) of Shore
Shoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shore
Shore (v. t.) To support by a shore or shores; to prop; -- usually with up; as, to shore up a building.
Shore (v. t.) The coast or land adjacent to a large body of water, as an ocean, lake, or large river.
Shore (v. t.) To set on shore.
Shoreless (a.) Having no shore or coast; of indefinite or unlimited extent; as, a shoreless ocean.
Shoreling (n.) See Shorling.
Shorer (n.) One who, or that which, shores or props; a prop; a shore.
Shoreward (adv.) Toward the shore.
Shoring (n.) The act of supporting or strengthening with a prop or shore.
Shoring (n.) A system of props; props, collectively.
Shorl (a.) Alt. of Shorlaceous
Shorlaceous (a.) See Schorl, Schorlaceous.
Shorling (n.) The skin of a sheen after the fleece is shorn off, as distinct from the morling, or skin taken from the dead sheep; also, a sheep of the first year's shearing.
Shorling (n.) A person who is shorn; a shaveling; hence, in contempt, a priest.
Shorn () p. p. of Shear.
Short (superl.) Not long; having brief length or linear extension; as, a short distance; a short piece of timber; a short flight.
Short (superl.) Not extended in time; having very limited duration; not protracted; as, short breath.
Short (superl.) Limited in quantity; inadequate; insufficient; scanty; as, a short supply of provisions, or of water.
Short (superl.) Insufficiently provided; inadequately supplied; scantily furnished; lacking; not coming up to a resonable, or the ordinary, standard; -- usually with of; as, to be short of money.
Short (superl.) Deficient; defective; imperfect; not coming up, as to a measure or standard; as, an account which is short of the trith.
Short (superl.) Not distant in time; near at hand.
Short (superl.) Limited in intellectual power or grasp; not comprehensive; narrow; not tenacious, as memory.
Short (superl.) Less important, efficaceous, or powerful; not equal or equivalent; less (than); -- with of.
Short (superl.) Abrupt; brief; pointed; petulant; as, he gave a short answer to the question.
Short (superl.) Breaking or crumbling readily in the mouth; crisp; as, short pastry.
Short (superl.) Brittle.
Short (superl.) Engaging or engaged to deliver what is not possessed; as, short contracts; to be short of stock. See The shorts, under Short, n., and To sell short, under Short, adv.
Short (adv.) Not prolonged, or relatively less prolonged, in utterance; -- opposed to long, and applied to vowels or to syllables. In English, the long and short of the same letter are not, in most cases, the long and short of the same sound; thus, the i in ill is the short sound, not of i in isle, but of ee in eel, and the e in pet is the short sound of a in pate, etc. See Quantity, and Guide to Pronunciation, //22, 30.
Short (n.) A summary account.
Short (n.) The part of milled grain sifted out which is next finer than the bran.
Short (n.) Short, inferior hemp.
Short (n.) Breeches; shortclothes.
Short (n.) A short sound, syllable, or vowel.
Short (adv.) In a short manner; briefly; limitedly; abruptly; quickly; as, to stop short in one's course; to turn short.
Short (v. t.) To shorten.
Short (v. i.) To fail; to decrease.
Shortage (n.) Amount or extent of deficiency, as determined by some requirement or standard; as, a shortage in money accounts.
Short-breathed (a.) Having short-breath, or quick respiration.
Short-breathed (a.) Having short life.
Shortcake (n.) An unsweetened breakfast cake shortened with butter or lard, rolled thin, and baked.
Short circuit () A circuit formed or closed by a conductor of relatively low resistance because shorter or of relatively great conductivity.
Short-circuited (imp. & p. p.) of Short-circuit
Short-circuiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Short-circuit
Short-circuit (v. t.) To join, as the electrodes of a battery or dynamo or any two points of a circuit, by a conductor of low resistance.
Shortclothes (n.) Coverings for the legs of men or boys, consisting of trousers which reach only to the knees, -- worn with long stockings.
Shortcoming (n.) The act of falling, or coming short
Shortcoming (n.) The failure of a crop, or the like.
Shortcoming (n.) Neglect of, or failure in, performance of duty.
Short-dated (a.) Having little time to run from the date.
Shortened / (imp. & p. p.) of Shorten
Shortening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shorten
Shorten (a.) To make short or shorter in measure, extent, or time; as, to shorten distance; to shorten a road; to shorten days of calamity.
Shorten (a.) To reduce or diminish in amount, quantity, or extent; to lessen; to abridge; to curtail; to contract; as, to shorten work, an allowance of food, etc.
Shorten (a.) To make deficient (as to); to deprive; -- with of.
Shorten (a.) To make short or friable, as pastry, with butter, lard, pot liquor, or the like.
Shorten (v. i.) To become short or shorter; as, the day shortens in northern latitudes from June to December; a metallic rod shortens by cold.
Shortener (n.) One who, or that which, shortens.
Shortening (n.) The act of making or becoming short or shorter.
Shortening (n.) That which renders pastry short or friable, as butter, lard, etc.
Shorthand (n.) A compendious and rapid method or writing by substituting characters, abbreviations, or symbols, for letters, words, etc.; short writing; stenography. See Illust. under Phonography.
Short-handed (a.) Short of, or lacking the regular number of, servants or helpers.
Shorthead (n.) A sucking whale less than one year old; -- so called by sailors.
Shorthorn (a.) One of a breed of large, heavy domestic cattle having short horns. The breed was developed in England.
Short-jointed (a.) Having short intervals between the joints; -- said of a plant or an animal, especially of a horse whose pastern is too short.
Short-lived (a.) Not living or lasting long; being of short continuance; as, a short-lived race of beings; short-lived pleasure; short-lived passion.
Shortly (adv.) In a short or brief time or manner; soon; quickly.
Shortly (adv.) In few words; briefly; abruptly; curtly; as, to express ideas more shortly in verse than in prose.
Shortness (n.) The quality or state of being short; want of reach or extension; brevity; deficiency; as, the shortness of a journey; the shortness of the days in winter; the shortness of an essay; the shortness of the memory; a shortness of provisions; shortness of breath.
Shortsighted (a.) Not able to see far; nearsighted; myopic. See Myopic, and Myopia.
Shortsighted (a.) Fig.: Not able to look far into futurity; unable to understand things deep; of limited intellect.
Shortsighted (a.) Having little regard for the future; heedless.
Short-spoken (a.) Speaking in a quick or short manner; hence, gruff; curt.
Shortstop (n.) The player stationed in the field bewtween the second and third bases.
Short-waisted (a.) Having a short waist.
Short-winded (a.) Affected with shortness of breath; having a quick, difficult respiration, as dyspnoic and asthmatic persons.
Shortwing (n.) Any one of several species of small wrenlike Asiatic birds having short wings and a short tail. They belong to Brachypterix, Callene, and allied genera.
Short-wited (a.) Having little wit; not wise; having scanty intellect or judgment.
Shory (a.) Lying near the shore.
Shoshones (n. pl.) A linguistic family or stock of North American Indians, comprising many tribes, which extends from Montana and Idaho into Mexico. In a restricted sense the name is applied especially to the Snakes, the most northern of the tribes.
Shot () imp. & p. p. of Shoot.
Shot (a.) Woven in such a way as to produce an effect of variegation, of changeable tints, or of being figured; as, shot silks. See Shoot, v. t., 8.
Shot (v. t.) A share or proportion; a reckoning; a scot.
Shot (pl. ) of Shot
Shots (pl. ) of Shot
Shot (n.) The act of shooting; discharge of a firearm or other weapon which throws a missile.
Shot (n.) A missile weapon, particularly a ball or bullet; specifically, whatever is discharged as a projectile from firearms or cannon by the force of an explosive.
Shot (n.) Small globular masses of lead, of various sizes, -- used chiefly for killing game; as, bird shot; buckshot.
Shot (n.) The flight of a missile, or the distance which it is, or can be, thrown; as, the vessel was distant more than a cannon shot.
Shot (n.) A marksman; one who practices shooting; as, an exellent shot.
Shotted (imp. & p. p.) of Shot
Shotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shot
Shot (v. t.) To load with shot, as a gun.
Shot-clog (n.) A person tolerated only because he pays the shot, or reckoning, for the rest of the company, otherwise a mere clog on them.
Shote (v. t.) A fish resembling the trout.
Shote (v. t.) A young hog; a shoat.
Shot-free (a.) Not to be injured by shot; shot-proof.
Shot-free (a.) Free from charge or expense; hence, unpunished; scot-free.
Shotgun (n.) A light, smooth-bored gun, often double-barreled, especially designed for firing small shot at short range, and killing small game.
Shot-proof (a.) Impenetrable by shot.
Shots (n. pl.) The refuse of cattle taken from a drove.
Shotted (a.) Loaded with shot.
Shotted (a.) Having a shot attached; as, a shotten suture.
Shotten (n.) Having ejected the spawn; as, a shotten herring.
Shotten (n.) Shot out of its socket; dislocated, as a bone.
Shough (n.) A shockdog.
Shough (interj.) See Shoo.
Should (imp.) Used as an auxiliary verb, to express a conditional or contingent act or state, or as a supposition of an actual fact; also, to express moral obligation (see Shall); e. g.: they should have come last week; if I should go; I should think you could go.
Shoulder (n.) The joint, or the region of the joint, by which the fore limb is connected with the body or with the shoulder girdle; the projection formed by the bones and muscles about that joint.
Shoulder (n.) The flesh and muscles connected with the shoulder joint; the upper part of the back; that part of the human frame on which it is most easy to carry a heavy burden; -- often used in the plural.
Shoulder (n.) Fig.: That which supports or sustains; support.
Shoulder (n.) That which resembles a human shoulder, as any protuberance or projection from the body of a thing.
Shoulder (n.) The upper joint of the fore leg and adjacent parts of an animal, dressed for market; as, a shoulder of mutton.
Shoulder (n.) The angle of a bastion included between the face and flank. See Illust. of Bastion.
Shoulder (n.) An abrupt projection which forms an abutment on an object, or limits motion, etc., as the projection around a tenon at the end of a piece of timber, the part of the top of a type which projects beyond the base of the raised character, etc.
Shouldered (imp. & p. p.) of Shoulder
Shouldering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shoulder
Shoulder (v. t.) To push or thrust with the shoulder; to push with violence; to jostle.
Shoulder (v. t.) To take upon the shoulder or shoulders; as, to shoulder a basket; hence, to assume the burden or responsibility of; as, to shoulder blame; to shoulder a debt.
Shouldered (a.) Having shoulders; -- used in composition; as, a broad-shouldered man.
Shoulder-shotten (a.) Sprained in the shoulder, as a horse.
Shouted (imp. & p. p.) of Shout
Shouting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shout
Shout (v. i.) To utter a sudden and loud outcry, as in joy, triumph, or exultation, or to attract attention, to animate soldiers, etc.
Shout (v. t.) To utter with a shout; to cry; -- sometimes with out; as, to shout, or to shout out, a man's name.
Shout (v. t.) To treat with shouts or clamor.
Shout (n.) A loud burst of voice or voices; a vehement and sudden outcry, especially of a multitudes expressing joy, triumph, exultation, or animated courage.
Shouter (n.) One who shouts.
Shoved (imp. & p. p.) of Shove
Shoving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shove
Shove (v. t.) To drive along by the direct and continuous application of strength; to push; especially, to push (a body) so as to make it move along the surface of another body; as, to shove a boat on the water; to shove a table across the floor.
Shove (v. t.) To push along, aside, or away, in a careless or rude manner; to jostle.
Shove (v. i.) To push or drive forward; to move onward by pushing or jostling.
Shove (v. i.) To move off or along by an act pushing, as with an oar a pole used by one in a boat; sometimes with off.
Shove (n.) The act of shoving; a forcible push.
Shove () p. p. of Shove.
Shoveboard (n.) Alt. of Shovegroat
Shovegroat (n.) The same as Shovelboard.
Shovel (v. t.) An implement consisting of a broad scoop, or more or less hollow blade, with a handle, used for lifting and throwing earth, coal, grain, or other loose substances.
Shoveled (imp. & p. p.) of Shovel
Shovelled () of Shovel
Shoveling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shovel
Shovelling () of Shovel
Shovel (v. t.) To take up and throw with a shovel; as, to shovel earth into a heap, or into a cart, or out of a pit.
Shovel (v. t.) To gather up as with a shovel.
Shovelard (n.) Shoveler.
Shovelbill (n.) The shoveler.
Shovelboard (n.) A board on which a game is played, by pushing or driving pieces of metal or money to reach certain marks; also, the game itself. Called also shuffleboard, shoveboard, shovegroat, shovelpenny.
Shovelboard (n.) A game played on board ship in which the aim is to shove or drive with a cue wooden disks into divisions chalked on the deck; -- called also shuffleboard.
Shoveler (n.) One who, or that which, shovels.
Shoveler (n.) A river duck (Spatula clypeata), native of Europe and America. It has a large bill, broadest towards the tip. The male is handsomely variegated with green, blue, brown, black, and white on the body; the head and neck are dark green. Called also broadbill, spoonbill, shovelbill, and maiden duck. The Australian shoveler, or shovel-nosed duck (S. rhynchotis), is a similar species.
Shovelfuls (pl. ) of Shovelful
Shovelful (n.) As much as a shovel will hold; enough to fill a shovel.
Shovelhead (n.) A shark (Sphryna tiburio) allied to the hammerhead, and native of the warmer parts of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans; -- called also bonnet shark.
Shovelnose (n.) The common sand shark. See under Snad.
Shovelnose (n.) A small California shark (Heptranchias maculatus), which is taken for its oil.
Shovelnose (n.) A Pacific Ocean shark (Hexanchus corinus).
Shovelnose (n.) A ganoid fish of the Sturgeon family (Scaphirhynchus platyrhynchus) of the Mississippi and Ohio rivers; -- called also white sturgeon.
Shovel-nosed (a.) Having a broad, flat nose; as, the shovel-nosed duck, or shoveler.
Shoven () p. p. of Shove.
Showed (imp.) of Show
Shown (p. p.) of Show
Showed () of Show
Showing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Show
Show (v. t.) To exhibit or present to view; to place in sight; to display; -- the thing exhibited being the object, and often with an indirect object denoting the person or thing seeing or beholding; as, to show a house; show your colors; shopkeepers show customers goods (show goods to customers).
Show (v. t.) To exhibit to the mental view; to tell; to disclose; to reveal; to make known; as, to show one's designs.
Show (v. t.) Specifically, to make known the way to (a person); hence, to direct; to guide; to asher; to conduct; as, to show a person into a parlor; to show one to the door.
Show (v. t.) To make apparent or clear, as by evidence, testimony, or reasoning; to prove; to explain; also, to manifest; to evince; as, to show the truth of a statement; to show the causes of an event.
Show (v. t.) To bestow; to confer; to afford; as, to show favor.
Show (v. i.) To exhibit or manifest one's self or itself; to appear; to look; to be in appearance; to seem.
Show (v. i.) To have a certain appearance, as well or ill, fit or unfit; to become or suit; to appear.
Show (n.) The act of showing, or bringing to view; exposure to sight; exhibition.
Show (n.) That which os shown, or brought to view; that which is arranged to be seen; a spectacle; an exhibition; as, a traveling show; a cattle show.
Show (n.) Proud or ostentatious display; parade; pomp.
Show (n.) Semblance; likeness; appearance.
Show (n.) False semblance; deceitful appearance; pretense.
Show (n.) A discharge, from the vagina, of mucus streaked with blood, occuring a short time before labor.
Show (n.) A pale blue flame, at the top of a candle flame, indicating the presence of fire damp.
Showbread (n.) Bread of exhibition; loaves to set before God; -- the term used in translating the various phrases used in the Hebrew and Greek to designate the loaves of bread which the priest of the week placed before the Lord on the golden table in the sanctuary. They were made of fine flour unleavened, and were changed every Sabbath. The loaves, twelve in number, represented the twelve tribes of Israel. They were to be eaten by the priests only, and in the Holy Place.
Shower (n.) One who shows or exhibits.
Shower (n.) That which shows; a mirror.
Shower (n.) A fall or rain or hail of short duration; sometimes, but rarely, a like fall of snow.
Shower (n.) That which resembles a shower in falling or passing through the air copiously and rapidly.
Shower (n.) A copious supply bestowed.
Showered (imp. & p. p.) of Shower
Showering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shower
Shower (v. t.) To water with a shower; to //t copiously with rain.
Shower (v. t.) To bestow liberally; to destribute or scatter in /undance; to rain.
Shower (v. i.) To rain in showers; to fall, as in a hower or showers.
Showerful (a.) Full of showers.
Showeriness (n.) Quality of being showery.
Showerless (a.) Rainless; freo from showers.
Showery (a.) Raining in showers; abounding with frequent showers of rain.
Showery (a.) Of or pertaining to a shower or showers.
Showily (adv.) In a showy manner; pompously; with parade.
Showiness (n.) The quality or state of being showy; pompousness; great parade; ostentation.
Showing (n.) Appearance; display; exhibition.
Showing (n.) Presentation of facts; statement.
Showish (a.) Showy; ostentatious.
Showmen (pl. ) of Showman
Showman (n.) One who exhibits a show; a proprietor of a show.
Shown () p. p. of Show.
Showroom (n.) A room or apartment where a show is exhibited.
Showroom (n.) A room where merchandise is exposed for sale, or where samples are displayed.
Showy (a.) Making a show; attracting attention; presenting a marked appearance; ostentatious; gay; gaudy.
Shrag (n.) A twig of a tree cut off.
Shrag (v. t.) To trim, as trees; to lop.
Shragger (n.) One who lops; one who trims trees.
Shram (v. t.) To cause to shrink or shrivel with cold; to benumb.
Shrank () imp. of Shrink.
Shrap (n.) Alt. of Shrape
Shrape (n.) A place baited with chaff to entice birds.
Shrapnel (a.) Applied as an appellation to a kind of shell invented by Gen. H. Shrapnel of the British army.
Shrapnel (n.) A shrapnel shell; shrapnel shells, collectively.
Shred (n.) A long, narrow piece cut or torn off; a strip.
Shred (n.) In general, a fragment; a piece; a particle.
Shred (imp. & p. p.) of Shred
Shredded () of Shred
Shredding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shred
Shred (n.) To cut or tear into small pieces, particularly narrow and long pieces, as of cloth or leather.
Shred (n.) To lop; to prune; to trim.
Shredcook (n.) The fieldfare; -- so called from its harsh cry before rain.
Shredding (n.) The act of cutting or tearing into shreds.
Shredding (n.) That which is cut or torn off; a piece.
Shreddy (a.) Consisting of shreds.
Shredless (a.) Having no shreds; without a shred.
Shrew (a.) Wicked; malicious.
Shrew (a.) Originally, a brawling, turbulent, vexatious person of either sex, but now restricted in use to females; a brawler; a scold.
Shrew (a.) Any small insectivore of the genus Sorex and several allied genera of the family Sorecidae. In form and color they resemble mice, but they have a longer and more pointed nose. Some of them are the smallest of all mammals.
Shrew (a.) To beshrew; to curse.
Shrewd (superl.) Inclining to shrew; disposing to curse or scold; hence, vicious; malicious; evil; wicked; mischievous; vexatious; rough; unfair; shrewish.
Shrewd (superl.) Artful; wily; cunning; arch.
Shrewd (superl.) Able or clever in practical affairs; sharp in business; astute; sharp-witted; sagacious; keen; as, a shrewd observer; a shrewd design; a shrewd reply.
Shrewish (a.) having the qualities of a shrew; having a scolding disposition; froward; peevish.
Shrewmouse (n.) A shrew; especially, the erd shrew.
Shrieked (imp. & p. p.) of Shriek
Shrieking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shriek
Shriek (v. i.) To utter a loud, sharp, shrill sound or cry, as do some birds and beasts; to scream, as in a sudden fright, in horror or anguish.
Shriek (v. t.) To utter sharply and shrilly; to utter in or with a shriek or shrieks.
Shriek (n.) A sharp, shrill outcry or scream; a shrill wild cry such as is caused by sudden or extreme terror, pain, or the like.
Shrieker (n.) One who utters a shriek.
Shrieval (a.) Of or pertaining to a sheriff.
Shrievalty (n.) The office, or sphere of jurisdiction, of a sheriff; sheriffalty.
Shrieve (n.) A sheriff.
Shrieve (v. t.) To shrive; to question.
Shrift (n.) The act of shriving.
Shrift (n.) Confession made to a priest, and the absolution consequent upon it.
Shright () imp. & p. p. of Shriek.
Shright (n.) A shriek; shrieking.
Shrike (v. i.) Any one of numerous species of oscinine birds of the family Laniidae, having a strong hooked bill, toothed at the tip. Most shrikes are insectivorous, but the common European gray shrike (Lanius excubitor), the great northern shrike (L. borealis), and several others, kill mice, small birds, etc., and often impale them on thorns, and are, on that account called also butcher birds. See under Butcher.
Shrill (v. i.) Acute; sharp; piercing; having or emitting a sharp, piercing tone or sound; -- said of a sound, or of that which produces a sound.
Shrill (n.) A shrill sound.
Shrilled (imp. & p. p.) of Shrill
Shrilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shrill
Shrill (v. i.) To utter an acute, piercing sound; to sound with a sharp, shrill tone; to become shrill.
Shrill (v. t.) To utter or express in a shrill tone; to cause to make a shrill sound.
Shrill-gorged (a.) Having a throat which produces a shrill note.
Shrillness (n.) The quality or state of being shrill.
Shrill-tongued (a.) Having a shrill voice.
Shrilly (adv.) In a shrill manner; acutely; with a sharp sound or voice.
Shrilly (a.) Somewhat shrill.
Shrimp (v. t.) To contract; to shrink.
Shrimp (v.) Any one of numerous species of macruran Crustacea belonging to Crangon and various allied genera, having a slender body and long legs. Many of them are used as food. The larger kinds are called also prawns. See Illust. of Decapoda.
Shrimp (v.) In a more general sense, any species of the macruran tribe Caridea, or any species of the order Schizopoda, having a similar form.
Shrimp (v.) In a loose sense, any small crustacean, including some amphipods and even certain entomostracans; as, the fairy shrimp, and brine shrimp. See under Fairy, and Brine.
Shrimp (v.) Figuratively, a little wrinkled man; a dwarf; -- in contempt.
Shrimper (n.) One who fishes for shrimps.
Shrine (n.) A case, box, or receptacle, especially one in which are deposited sacred relics, as the bones of a saint.
Shrine (n.) Any sacred place, as an altar, tromb, or the like.
Shrine (n.) A place or object hallowed from its history or associations; as, a shrine of art.
Shrine (v. t.) To enshrine; to place reverently, as in a shrine.
Shrank (imp.) of Shrink
Shrunk () of Shrink
Shrunk (p. p.) of Shrink
Shrunken () of Shrink
Shrinking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shrink
Shrink (v. i.) To wrinkle, bend, or curl; to shrivel; hence, to contract into a less extent or compass; to gather together; to become compacted.
Shrink (v. i.) To withdraw or retire, as from danger; to decline action from fear; to recoil, as in fear, horror, or distress.
Shrink (v. i.) To express fear, horror, or pain by contracting the body, or part of it; to shudder; to quake.
Shrink (v. t.) To cause to contract or shrink; as, to shrink finnel by imersing it in boiling water.
Shrink (v. t.) To draw back; to withdraw.
Shrink (n.) The act shrinking; shrinkage; contraction; also, recoil; withdrawal.
Shrinkage (n.) The act of shrinking; a contraction into less bulk or measurement.
Shrinkage (n.) The amount of such contraction; the bulk or dimension lost by shrinking, as of grain, castings, etc.
Shrinkage (n.) Decrease in value; depreciation.
Shrinker (n.) One who shrinks; one who withdraws from danger.
Shrinking () a. & n. from Shrink.
Shrinkingly (adv.) In a shrinking manner.
Shrivalty (n.) Shrievalty.
Shrived (imp.) of Shrive
Shrove () of Shrive
Shriven (p. p.) of Shrive
Shrived () of Shrive
Shriving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shrive
Shrive (v. t.) To hear or receive the confession of; to administer confession and absolution to; -- said of a priest as the agent.
Shrive (v. t.) To confess, and receive absolution; -- used reflexively.
Shrive (v. i.) To receive confessions, as a priest; to administer confession and absolution.
Shriveled (imp. & p. p.) of Shrivel
Shrivelled () of Shrivel
Shriveling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shrivel
Shrivelling () of Shrivel
Shrivel (v. i.) To draw, or be drawn, into wrinkles; to shrink, and form corrugations; as, a leaf shriveles in the hot sun; the skin shrivels with age; -- often with up.
Shrivel (v. t.) To cause to shrivel or contract; to cause to shrink onto corruptions.
Shriven () p. p. of Shrive.
Shriver (n.) One who shrives; a confessor.
Shriving (n.) Shrift; confession.
Shroff (n.) A banker, or changer of money.
Shroffage (n.) The examination of coins, and the separation of the good from the debased.
Shrood (v. t.) To trim; to lop.
Shroud (n.) That which clothes, covers, conceals, or protects; a garment.
Shroud (n.) Especially, the dress for the dead; a winding sheet.
Shroud (n.) That which covers or shelters like a shroud.
Shroud (n.) A covered place used as a retreat or shelter, as a cave or den; also, a vault or crypt.
Shroud (n.) The branching top of a tree; foliage.
Shroud (n.) A set of ropes serving as stays to support the masts. The lower shrouds are secured to the sides of vessels by heavy iron bolts and are passed around the head of the lower masts.
Shroud (n.) One of the two annular plates at the periphery of a water wheel, which form the sides of the buckets; a shroud plate.
Shrouded (imp. & p. p.) of Shroud
Shrouding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shroud
Shroud (n.) To cover with a shroud; especially, to inclose in a winding sheet; to dress for the grave.
Shroud (n.) To cover, as with a shroud; to protect completely; to cover so as to conceal; to hide; to veil.
Shroud (v. i.) To take shelter or harbor.
Shroud (v. t.) To lop. See Shrood.
Shrouded (a.) Provided with a shroud or shrouds.
Shrouding (n.) The shrouds. See Shroud, n., 7.
Shroud-laid (a.) Composed of four strands, and laid right-handed with a heart, or center; -- said of rope. See Illust. under Cordage.
Shroudless (a.) Without a shroud.
Shroudy (a.) Affording shelter.
Shrove () imp. of Shrive.
Shrove (v. i.) To join in the festivities of Shrovetide; hence, to make merry.
Shrovetide (n.) The days immediately preceding Ash Widnesday, especially the period between the evening before Quinguagesima Sunday and the morning of Ash Wednesday.
Shroving (n.) The festivity of Shrovetide.
Shrow (n.) A shrew.
Shrowd (v. t.) See Shrood.
Shrub (n.) A liquor composed of vegetable acid, especially lemon juice, and sugar, with spirit to preserve it.
Shrub (n.) A woody plant of less size than a tree, and usually with several stems from the same root.
Shrub (v. t.) To lop; to prune.
Shrubberies (pl. ) of Shrubbery
Shrubbery (n.) A collection of shrubs.
Shrubbery (n.) A place where shrubs are planted.
Shrubbiness (n.) Quality of being shrubby.
Shrubby (superl.) Full of shrubs.
Shrubby (superl.) Of the nature of a shrub; resembling a shrub.
Shrubless (a.) having no shrubs.
Shruff (n.) Rubbish. Specifically: (a) Dross or refuse of metals. [Obs.] (b) Light, dry wood, or stuff used for fuel.
Shrugged (imp. & p. p.) of Shrug
Shrugging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shrug
Shrug (v. t.) To draw up or contract (the shoulders), especially by way of expressing dislike, dread, doubt, or the like.
Shrug (v. i.) To raise or draw up the shoulders, as in expressing dislike, dread, doubt, or the like.
Shrug (n.) A drawing up of the shoulders, -- a motion usually expressing dislike, dread, or doubt.
Shrunken () p. p. & a. from Shrink.
Shuck (n.) A shock of grain.
Shuck (n.) A shell, husk, or pod; especially, the outer covering of such nuts as the hickory nut, butternut, peanut, and chestnut.
Shuck (n.) The shell of an oyster or clam.
Shucked (imp. & p. p.) of Shuck
Shucking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shuck
Shuck (v. t.) To deprive of the shucks or husks; as, to shuck walnuts, Indian corn, oysters, etc.
Shucker (n.) One who shucks oysters or clams
Shuddered (imp. & p. p.) of Shudder
Shuddering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shudder
Shudder (v. i.) To tremble or shake with fear, horrer, or aversion; to shiver with cold; to quake.
Shudder (n.) The act of shuddering, as with fear.
Shudderingly (adv.) In a shuddering manner.
Shude (n.) The husks and other refuse of rice mills, used to adulterate oil cake, or linseed cake.
Shuffled (imp. & p. p.) of Shuffle
Shuffling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shuffle
Shuffle (v. t.) To shove one way and the other; to push from one to another; as, to shuffle money from hand to hand.
Shuffle (v. t.) To mix by pushing or shoving; to confuse; to throw into disorder; especially, to change the relative positions of, as of the cards in a pack.
Shuffle (v. t.) To remove or introduce by artificial confusion.
Shuffle (v. i.) To change the relative position of cards in a pack; as, to shuffle and cut.
Shuffle (v. i.) To change one's position; to shift ground; to evade questions; to resort to equivocation; to prevaricate.
Shuffle (v. i.) To use arts or expedients; to make shift.
Shuffle (v. i.) To move in a slovenly, dragging manner; to drag or scrape the feet in walking or dancing.
Shuffle (n.) The act of shuffling; a mixing confusedly; a slovenly, dragging motion.
Shuffle (n.) A trick; an artifice; an evasion.
Shuffleboard (n.) See Shovelboard.
Shufflecap (n.) A play performed by shaking money in a hat or cap.
Shuffler (n.) One who shuffles.
Shuffler (n.) Either one of the three common American scaup ducks. See Scaup duck, under Scaup.
Shufflewing (n.) The hedg sparrow.
Shuffling (a.) Moving with a dragging, scraping step.
Shuffling (a.) Evasive; as, a shuffling excuse.
Shuffling (v.) In a shuffling manner.
Shug (v. i.) To writhe the body so as to produce friction against one's clothes, as do those who have the itch.
Shug (v. i.) Hence, to crawl; to sneak.
Shumac (n.) Sumac.
Shunned (imp. & p. p.) of Shun
Shunning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shun
Shun (v. t.) To avoid; to keep clear of; to get out of the way of; to escape from; to eschew; as, to shun rocks, shoals, vice.
Shunless (a.) Not to be shunned; inevitable; unavoidable.
Shunted (imp. & p. p.) of Shunt
Shunting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shunt
Shunt (v. t.) To shun; to move from.
Shunt (v. t.) To cause to move suddenly; to give a sudden start to; to shove.
Shunt (v. t.) To turn off to one side; especially, to turn off, as a grain or a car upon a side track; to switch off; to shift.
Shunt (v. t.) To provide with a shunt; as, to shunt a galvanometer.
Shunt (v. i.) To go aside; to turn off.
Shunt (v. t.) A turning off to a side or short track, that the principal track may be left free.
Shunt (v. t.) A conducting circuit joining two points in a conductor, or the terminals of a galvanometer or dynamo, so as to form a parallel or derived circuit through which a portion of the current may pass, for the purpose of regulating the amount passing in the main circuit.
Shunt (v. t.) The shifting of the studs on a projectile from the deep to the shallow sides of the grooves in its discharge from a shunt gun.
Shunter (n.) A person employed to shunt cars from one track to another.
Shut (imp. & p. p.) of Shut
Shutting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shut
Shut (v. t.) To close so as to hinder ingress or egress; as, to shut a door or a gate; to shut one's eyes or mouth.
Shut (v. t.) To forbid entrance into; to prohibit; to bar; as, to shut the ports of a country by a blockade.
Shut (v. t.) To preclude; to exclude; to bar out.
Shut (v. t.) To fold together; to close over, as the fingers; to close by bringing the parts together; as, to shut the hand; to shut a book.
Shut (v. i.) To close itself; to become closed; as, the door shuts; it shuts hard.
Shut (a.) Closed or fastened; as, a shut door.
Shut (a.) Rid; clear; free; as, to get shut of a person.
Shut (a.) Formed by complete closure of the mouth passage, and with the nose passage remaining closed; stopped, as are the mute consonants, p, t, k, b, d, and hard g.
Shut (a.) Cut off sharply and abruptly by a following consonant in the same syllable, as the English short vowels, /, /, /, /, /, always are.
Shut (n.) The act or time of shutting; close; as, the shut of a door.
Shut (n.) A door or cover; a shutter.
Shut (n.) The line or place where two pieces of metal are united by welding.
Shute (n.) Same as Chute, or Shoot.
Shutter (n.) One who shuts or closes.
Shutter (n.) A movable cover or screen for a window, designed to shut out the light, to obstruct the view, or to be of some strength as a defense; a blind.
Shutter (n.) A removable cover, or a gate, for closing an aperture of any kind, as for closing the passageway for molten iron from a ladle.
Shuttered (a.) Furnished with shutters.
Shuttle (n.) An instrument used in weaving for passing or shooting the thread of the woof from one side of the cloth to the other between the threads of the warp.
Shuttle (n.) The sliding thread holder in a sewing machine, which carries the lower thread through a loop of the upper thread, to make a lock stitch.
Shuttle (n.) A shutter, as for a channel for molten metal.
Shuttle (v. i.) To move backwards and forwards, like a shuttle.
Shuttlecock (n.) A cork stuck with feathers, which is to be struck by a battledoor in play; also, the play itself.
Shuttlecock (v. t.) To send or toss to and fro; to bandy; as, to shuttlecock words.
Shuttlecork (n.) See Shuttlecock.
Shuttlewise (adv.) Back and forth, like the movement of a shuttle.
Shwan-pan (n.) See Schwan-pan.
Shy (superl.) Easily frightened; timid; as, a shy bird.
Shy (superl.) Reserved; coy; disinclined to familiar approach.
Shy (superl.) Cautious; wary; suspicious.
Shied (imp. & p. p.) of Shy
Shying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Shy
Shy (a.) To start suddenly aside through fright or suspicion; -- said especially of horses.
Shy (v. t.) To throw sidewise with a jerk; to fling; as, to shy a stone; to shy a slipper.
Shy (n.) A sudden start aside, as by a horse.
Shy (n.) A side throw; a throw; a fling.
Shyly (adv.) In a shy or timid manner; not familiarly; with reserve.
Shyness (n.) The quality or state of being shy.
Shyster (n.) A trickish knave; one who carries on any business, especially legal business, in a mean and dishonest way.
Si () A syllable applied, in solmization, to the note B; more recently, to the seventh tone of any major diatonic scale. It was added to Guido's scale by Le Maire about the end of the 17th century.
Siaga (n.) The ahu, or jairou.
Sialogogue (n.) An agent which promotes the flow of saliva.
Siamang (n.) A gibbon (Hylobates syndactylus), native of Sumatra. It has the second and third toes partially united by a web.
Siamese (a.) Of or pertaining to Siam, its native people, or their language.
Siamese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or inhabitant of Siam; pl., the people of Siam.
Siamese (n. sing. & pl.) The language of the Siamese.
Sib (n.) A blood relation.
Sib (a.) Related by blood; akin.
Sibbens (n.) A contagious disease, endemic in Scotland, resembling the yaws. It is marked by ulceration of the throat and nose and by pustules and soft fungous excrescences upon the surface of the body. In the Orkneys the name is applied to the itch.
Siberian (a.) Of or pertaining to Siberia, a region comprising all northern Asia and belonging to Russia; as, a Siberian winter.
Siberian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Siberia.
Sibilance (n.) Alt. of Sibilancy
Sibilancy (n.) The quality or state of being sibilant; sibilation.
Sibilant (a.) Making a hissing sound; uttered with a hissing sound; hissing; as, s, z, sh, and zh, are sibilant elementary sounds.
Sibilant (n.) A sibiliant letter.
Sibilate (v. t. & i.) To pronounce with a hissing sound, like that of the letter s; to mark with a character indicating such pronunciation.
Sibilation (n.) Utterance with a hissing sound; also, the sound itself; a hiss.
Sibilatory (a.) Hissing; sibilant.
Sibilous (a.) Having a hissing sound; hissing; sibilant.
Sibyl (n.) A woman supposed to be endowed with a spirit of prophecy.
Sibyl (n.) A female fortune teller; a pythoness; a prophetess.
Sibylist (n.) One who believes in a sibyl or the sibylline prophecies.
Sibylline (a.) Pertaining to the sibyls; uttered, written, or composed by sibyls; like the productions of sibyls.
Sic (a.) Such.
Sic (adv.) Thus.
Sicamore (n.) See Sycamore.
Sicca (n.) A seal; a coining die; -- used adjectively to designate the silver currency of the Mogul emperors, or the Indian rupee of 192 grains.
Siccate (v. t.) To dry.
Siccation (n.) The act or process of drying.
Siccative (a.) Drying; causing to dry.
Siccative (n.) That which promotes drying.
Siccific (a.) Causing dryness.
Siccity (n.) Dryness; aridity; destitution of moisture.
Sice (n.) The number six at dice.
Sicer (n.) A strong drink; cider.
Sich (a.) Such.
Sicilian (a.) Of or pertaining to Sicily or its inhabitants.
Sicilian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Sicily.
Siciliano (n.) A Sicilian dance, resembling the pastorale, set to a rather slow and graceful melody in 12-8 or 6-8 measure; also, the music to the dance.
Sicilienne (n.) A kind of rich poplin.
Sick (superl.) Affected with disease of any kind; ill; indisposed; not in health. See the Synonym under Illness.
Sick (superl.) Affected with, or attended by, nausea; inclined to vomit; as, sick at the stomach; a sick headache.
Sick (superl.) Having a strong dislike; disgusted; surfeited; -- with of; as, to be sick of flattery.
Sick (superl.) Corrupted; imperfect; impaired; weakned.
Sick (n.) Sickness.
Sick (v. i.) To fall sick; to sicken.
Sick-brained (a.) Disordered in the brain.
Sickened (imp. & p. p.) of Sicken
Sickening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sicken
Sicken (v. t.) To make sick; to disease.
Sicken (v. t.) To make qualmish; to nauseate; to disgust; as, to sicken the stomach.
Sicken (v. t.) To impair; to weaken.
Sicken (v. i.) To become sick; to fall into disease.
Sicken (v. i.) To be filled to disgust; to be disgusted or nauseated; to be filled with abhorrence or aversion; to be surfeited or satiated.
Sicken (v. i.) To become disgusting or tedious.
Sicken (v. i.) To become weak; to decay; to languish.
Sickening (a.) Causing sickness; specif., causing surfeit or disgust; nauseating.
Sicker (v. i.) To percolate, trickle, or ooze, as water through a crack.
Sicker (a.) Alt. of Siker
Siker (a.) Sure; certain; trusty.
Sicker (adv.) Alt. of Siker
Siker (adv.) Surely; certainly.
Sickerly (adv.) Alt. of Sikerly
Sikerly (adv.) Surely; securely.
Sickerness (n.) Alt. of Sikerness
Sikerness (n.) The quality or state of being sicker, or certain.
Sickish (a.) Somewhat sick or diseased.
Sickish (a.) Somewhat sickening; as, a sickish taste.
Sickle (n.) A reaping instrument consisting of a steel blade curved into the form of a hook, and having a handle fitted on a tang. The sickle has one side of the blade notched, so as always to sharpen with a serrated edge. Cf. Reaping hook, under Reap.
Sickle (n.) A group of stars in the constellation Leo. See Illust. of Leo.
Sicklebill (n.) Any one of three species of humming birds of the genus Eutoxeres, native of Central and South America. They have a long and strongly curved bill. Called also the sickle-billed hummer.
Sicklebill (n.) A curlew.
Sicklebill (n.) A bird of the genus Epimachus and allied genera.
Sickled (a.) Furnished with a sickle.
Sicklemen (pl. ) of Sickleman
Sickleman (n.) One who uses a sickle; a reaper.
Sickler (n.) One who uses a sickle; a sickleman; a reaper.
Sickless (a.) Free from sickness.
Sicklewort (n.) A plant of the genus Coronilla (C. scorpioides); -- so named from its curved pods.
Sicklewort (n.) The healall (Brunella vulgaris).
Sicklied (a.) Made sickly. See Sickly, v.
Sickliness (n.) The quality or state of being sickly.
Sickly (superl.) Somewhat sick; disposed to illness; attended with disease; as, a sickly body.
Sickly (superl.) Producing, or tending to, disease; as, a sickly autumn; a sickly climate.
Sickly (superl.) Appearing as if sick; weak; languid; pale.
Sickly (superl.) Tending to produce nausea; sickening; as, a sickly smell; sickly sentimentality.
Sickly (adv.) In a sick manner or condition; ill.
Sickly (v. t.) To make sick or sickly; -- with over, and probably only in the past participle.
Sickness (n.) The quality or state of being sick or diseased; illness; sisease or malady.
Sickness (n.) Nausea; qualmishness; as, sickness of stomach.
Sicle (n.) A shekel.
Sida (n.) A genus of malvaceous plants common in the tropics. All the species are mucilaginous, and some have tough ligneous fibers which are used as a substitute for hemp and flax.
Siddow (a.) Soft; pulpy.
Side (n.) The margin, edge, verge, or border of a surface; especially (when the thing spoken of is somewhat oblong in shape), one of the longer edges as distinguished from the shorter edges, called ends; a bounding line of a geometrical figure; as, the side of a field, of a square or triangle, of a river, of a road, etc.
Side (n.) Any outer portion of a thing considered apart from, and yet in relation to, the rest; as, the upper side of a sphere; also, any part or position viewed as opposite to or contrasted with another; as, this or that side.
Side (n.) One of the halves of the body, of an animals or man, on either side of the mesial plane; or that which pertains to such a half; as, a side of beef; a side of sole leather.
Side (n.) The right or left part of the wall or trunk of the body; as, a pain in the side.
Side (n.) A slope or declivity, as of a hill, considered as opposed to another slope over the ridge.
Side (n.) The position of a person or party regarded as opposed to another person or party, whether as a rival or a foe; a body of advocates or partisans; a party; hence, the interest or cause which one maintains against another; a doctrine or view opposed to another.
Side (n.) A line of descent traced through one parent as distinguished from that traced through another.
Side (n.) Fig.: Aspect or part regarded as contrasted with some other; as, the bright side of poverty.
Side (a.) Of or pertaining to a side, or the sides; being on the side, or toward the side; lateral.
Side (a.) Hence, indirect; oblique; collateral; incidental; as, a side issue; a side view or remark.
Side (n.) Long; large; extensive.
Sided (imp. & p. p.) of Side
Siding (p. pr.& vb. n.) of Side
Side (v. i.) To lean on one side.
Side (v. i.) To embrace the opinions of one party, or engage in its interest, in opposition to another party; to take sides; as, to side with the ministerial party.
Side (v. t.) To be or stand at the side of; to be on the side toward.
Side (v. t.) To suit; to pair; to match.
Side (v. t.) To work (a timber or rib) to a certain thickness by trimming the sides.
Side (v. t.) To furnish with a siding; as, to side a house.
Sideboard (n.) A piece of dining-room furniture having compartments and shelves for keeping or displaying articles of table service.
Sidebone (n.) A morbid growth or deposit of bony matter and at the sides of the coronet and coffin bone of a horse.
Sided (a.) Having (such or so many) sides; -- used in composition; as, one-sided; many-sided.
Sidehill (n.) The side or slope of a hill; sloping ground; a descent.
Sideling (adv.) Sidelong; on the side; laterally; also, obliquely; askew.
Sideling (a.) Inclining to one side; directed toward one side; sloping; inclined; as, sideling ground.
Sidelong (adv.) Laterally; obliquely; in the direction of the side.
Sidelong (adv.) On the side; as, to lay a thing sidelong.
Sidelong (a.) Lateral; oblique; not being directly in front; as, a sidelong glance.
Sidepiece (n.) The jamb, or cheek, of an opening in a wall, as of door or window.
Sider (n.) One who takes a side.
Sider (n.) Cider.
Sideral (a.) Relating to the stars.
Sideral (a.) Affecting unfavorably by the supposed influence of the stars; baleful.
Siderated (a.) Planet-struck; blasted.
Sideration (n.) The state of being siderated, or planet-struck; esp., blast in plants; also, a sudden and apparently causeless stroke of disease, as in apoplexy or paralysis.
Sidereal (a.) Relating to the stars; starry; astral; as, sidereal astronomy.
Sidereal (a.) Measuring by the apparent motion of the stars; designated, marked out, or accompanied, by a return to the same position in respect to the stars; as, the sidereal revolution of a planet; a sidereal day.
Siderealize (v. t.) To elevate to the stars, or to the region of the stars; to etherealize.
Sidereous (a.) Sidereal.
Siderite (n.) Carbonate of iron, an important ore of iron occuring generally in cleavable masses, but also in rhombohedral crystals. It is of a light yellowish brown color. Called also sparry iron, spathic iron.
Siderite (n.) A meteorite consisting solely of metallic iron.
Siderite (n.) An indigo-blue variety of quartz.
Siderite (n.) Formerly, magnetic iron ore, or loadstone.
Siderite (n.) Any plant of the genus Sideritis; ironwort.
Siderographic (a.) Alt. of Siderographical
Siderographical (a.) Of or pertaining to siderography; executed by engraved plates of steel; as, siderographic art; siderographic impressions.
Siderographist (n.) One skilled in siderography.
Siderography (n.) The art or practice of steel engraving; especially, the process, invented by Perkins, of multiplying facsimiles of an engraved steel plate by first rolling over it, when hardened, a soft steel cylinder, and then rolling the cylinder, when hardened, over a soft steel plate, which thus becomes a facsimile of the original. The process has been superseded by electrotypy.
Siderolite (n.) A kind of meteorite. See under Meteorite.
Sideromancy (n.) Divination by burning straws on red-hot iron, and noting the manner of their burning.
Sideroscope (n.) An instrument for detecting small quantities of iron in any substance by means of a very delicate combination of magnetic needles.
Siderosis (n.) A sort of pneumonia occuring in iron workers, produced by the inhalation of particles of iron.
Siderostat (n.) An apparatus consisting essentially of a mirror moved by clockwork so as to throw the rays of the sun or a star in a fixed direction; -- a more general term for heliostat.
Sideroxylon (n.) A genus of tropical sapotaceous trees noted for their very hard wood; ironwood.
Sidesaddle (n.) A saddle for women, in which the rider sits with both feet on one side of the animal mounted.
Sidesmen (pl. ) of Sidesman
Sidesman (n.) A party man; a partisan.
Sidesman (n.) An assistant to the churchwarden; a questman.
Side-taking (n.) A taking sides, as with a party, sect, or faction.
Sidewalk (n.) A walk for foot passengers at the side of a street or road; a foot pavement.
Sideways (adv.) Toward the side; sidewise.
Side-wheel (a.) Having a paddle wheel on each side; -- said of steam vessels; as, a side-wheel steamer.
Sidewinder (n.) See Horned rattler, under Horned.
Sidewinder (n.) A heavy swinging blow from the side, which disables an adversary.
Sidewise (adv.) On or toward one side; laterally; sideways.
Siding (n.) Attaching one's self to a party.
Siding (n.) A side track, as a railroad; a turnout.
Siding (n.) The covering of the outside wall of a frame house, whether made of weatherboards, vertical boarding with cleats, shingles, or the like.
Siding (n.) The thickness of a rib or timber, measured, at right angles with its side, across the curved edge; as, a timber having a siding of ten inches.
Sidled (imp. & p. p.) of Sidle
Sidling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sidle
Sidle (v. t.) To go or move with one side foremost; to move sidewise; as, to sidle through a crowd or narrow opening.
Siege (n.) A seat; especially, a royal seat; a throne.
Siege (n.) Hence, place or situation; seat.
Siege (n.) Rank; grade; station; estimation.
Siege (n.) Passage of excrements; stool; fecal matter.
Siege (n.) The sitting of an army around or before a fortified place for the purpose of compelling the garrison to surrender; the surrounding or investing of a place by an army, and approaching it by passages and advanced works, which cover the besiegers from the enemy's fire. See the Note under Blockade.
Siege (n.) Hence, a continued attempt to gain possession.
Siege (n.) The floor of a glass-furnace.
Siege (n.) A workman's bench.
Siege (v. t.) To besiege; to beset.
Siegework (n.) A temporary fort or parallel where siege guns are mounted.
Siemens-Martin process () See Open-hearth process, etc., under Open.
Sienite (n.) See Syenite.
Sienitic (a.) See Syenitic.
Sienna (n.) Clay that is colored red or brown by the oxides of iron or manganese, and used as a pigment. It is used either in the raw state or burnt.
Siennese (a.) Of or pertaining to Sienna, a city of Italy.
Sierra (n.) A ridge of mountain and craggy rocks, with a serrated or irregular outline; as, the Sierra Nevada.
Siesta (n.) A short sleep taken about the middle of the day, or after dinner; a midday nap.
Sieur (n.) Sir; -- a title of respect used by the French.
Sieva (n.) A small variety of the Lima bean (Phaseolus lunatus).
Sieve (n.) A utensil for separating the finer and coarser parts of a pulverized or granulated substance from each other. It consist of a vessel, usually shallow, with the bottom perforated, or made of hair, wire, or the like, woven in meshes.
Sieve (n.) A kind of coarse basket.
Sifac (n.) The white indris of Madagascar. It is regarded by the natives as sacred.
Sifflement (n.) The act of whistling or hissing; a whistling sound; sibilation.
Sifilet (n.) The six-shafted bird of paradise. See Paradise bird, under Paradise.
Sifted (imp. & p. p.) of Sift
Sifting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sift
Sift (v. t.) To separate with a sieve, as the fine part of a substance from the coarse; as, to sift meal or flour; to sift powder; to sift sand or lime.
Sift (v. t.) To separate or part as if with a sieve.
Sift (v. t.) To examine critically or minutely; to scrutinize.
Sifter (n.) One who, or that which, sifts.
Sifter (n.) Any lamellirostral bird, as a duck or goose; -- so called because it sifts or strains its food from the water and mud by means of the lamell/ of the beak.
Sig (v. t.) Urine.
Sigaultian (a.) Pertaining to Sigault, a French physician. See Symphyseotomy.
Sigger (v. i.) Same as
Sighed (imp. & p. p.) of Sigh
Sighing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sigh
Sigh (v. i.) To inhale a larger quantity of air than usual, and immediately expel it; to make a deep single audible respiration, especially as the result or involuntary expression of fatigue, exhaustion, grief, sorrow, or the like.
Sigh (v. i.) Hence, to lament; to grieve.
Sigh (v. i.) To make a sound like sighing.
Sigh (v. t.) To exhale (the breath) in sighs.
Sigh (v. t.) To utter sighs over; to lament or mourn over.
Sigh (v. t.) To express by sighs; to utter in or with sighs.
Sigh (v. i.) A deep and prolonged audible inspiration or respiration of air, as when fatigued or grieved; the act of sighing.
Sigh (v. i.) Figuratively, a manifestation of grief; a lan/ent.
Sigh-born (a.) Sorrowful; mournful.
Sigher (n.) One who sighs.
Sighing (a.) Uttering sighs; grieving; lamenting.
Sight (v. t.) The act of seeing; perception of objects by the eye; view; as, to gain sight of land.
Sight (v. t.) The power of seeing; the faculty of vision, or of perceiving objects by the instrumentality of the eyes.
Sight (v. t.) The state of admitting unobstructed vision; visibility; open view; region which the eye at one time surveys; space through which the power of vision extends; as, an object within sight.
Sight (v. t.) A spectacle; a view; a show; something worth seeing.
Tardigradous (a.) Moving slowly; slow-paced.
Tardily (adv.) In a tardy manner; slowly.
Tardiness (n.) The quality or state of being tardy.
Tarditation (n.) Tardiness.
Tardity (n.) Slowness; tardiness.
Tardo (a.) Slow; -- a direction to perform a passage slowly.
Tardo (n.) A sloth.
Tardy (superl.) Moving with a slow pace or motion; slow; not swift.
Tardy (superl.) Not being inseason; late; dilatory; -- opposed to prompt; as, to be tardy in one's payments.
Tardy (superl.) Unwary; unready.
Tardy (superl.) Criminal; guilty.
Tardy (v. t.) To make tardy.
Tare (imp.) Tore.
Tare (n.) A weed that grows among wheat and other grain; -- alleged by modern naturalists to be the Lolium temulentum, or darnel.
Tare (n.) A name of several climbing or diffuse leguminous herbs of the genus Vicia; especially, the V. sativa, sometimes grown for fodder.
Tare (n.) Deficientcy in the weight or quantity of goods by reason of the weight of the cask, bag, or whatever contains the commodity, and is weighed with it; hence, the allowance or abatement of a certain weight or quantity which the seller makes to the buyer on account of the weight of such cask, bag, etc.
Tared (imp. & p. p.) of Tare
Taring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tare
Tare (v. t.) To ascertain or mark the tare of (goods).
Tared (a.) Weighed; determined; reduced to equal or standard weight; as, tared filter papers, used in weighing precipitates.
Tarente (n.) A harmless lizard of the Gecko family (Platydactylus Mauritianicus) found in Southern Europe and adjacent countries, especially among old walls and ruins.
Tarentism (n.) See Tarantism.
Tarentula (n.) See Tarantula.
Targe (n.) A shield or target.
Target (n.) A kind of small shield or buckler, used as a defensive weapon in war.
Target (n.) A butt or mark to shoot at, as for practice, or to test the accuracy of a firearm, or the force of a projectile.
Target (n.) The pattern or arrangement of a series of hits made by a marksman on a butt or mark; as, he made a good target.
Target (n.) The sliding crosspiece, or vane, on a leveling staff.
Target (n.) A conspicuous disk attached to a switch lever to show its position, or for use as a signal.
Targeted (a.) Furnished, armed, or protected, with a target.
Targeteer (n.) One who is armed with a target or shield.
Targums (pl. ) of Targum
Targumim (pl. ) of Targum
Targum (n.) A translation or paraphrase of some portion of the Old Testament Scriptures in the Chaldee or Aramaic language or dialect.
Targumist (n.) The writer of a Targum; one versed in the Targums.
Tariff (n.) A schedule, system, or scheme of duties imposed by the government of a country upon goods imported or exported; as, a revenue tariff; a protective tariff; Clay's compromise tariff. (U. S. 1833).
Tariff (n.) The duty, or rate of duty, so imposed; as, the tariff on wool; a tariff of two cents a pound.
Tariff (n.) Any schedule or system of rates, changes, etc.; as, a tariff of fees, or of railroad fares.
Tariffed (imp. & p. p.) of Tariff
Tariffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tariff
Tariff (v. t.) To make a list of duties on, as goods.
Tarin (n.) The siskin.
Taring (n.) The common tern; -- called also tarret, and tarrock.
Tarlatan (n.) A kind of thin, transparent muslin, used for dresses.
Tarn (n.) A mountain lake or pool.
Tarnished (imp. & p. p.) of Tarnish
Tarnishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tarnish
Tarnish (a.) To soil, or change the appearance of, especially by an alternation induced by the air, or by dust, or the like; to diminish, dull, or destroy the luster of; to sully; as, to tarnish a metal; to tarnish gilding; to tarnish the purity of color.
Tarnish (v. i.) To lose luster; to become dull; as, gilding will tarnish in a foul air.
Tarnish (n.) The quality or state of being tarnished; stain; soil; blemish.
Tarnish (n.) A thin film on the surface of a metal, usually due to a slight alteration of the original color; as, the steel tarnish in columbite.
Tarnisher (n.) One who, or that which, tarnishes.
Taro (n.) A name for several aroid plants (Colocasia antiquorum, var. esculenta, Colocasia macrorhiza, etc.), and their rootstocks. They have large ovate-sagittate leaves and large fleshy rootstocks, which are cooked and used for food in tropical countries.
Tarot (n.) A game of cards; -- called also taroc.
Tarpan (n.) A wild horse found in the region of the Caspian Sea.
Tarpaulin (n.) A piece of canvas covered with tar or a waterproof composition, used for covering the hatches of a ship, hammocks, boats, etc.
Tarpaulin (n.) A hat made of, or covered with, painted or tarred cloth, worn by sailors and others.
Tarpaulin (n.) Hence, a sailor; a seaman; a tar.
Tarpon (n.) Same as Tarpum.
Tarpum (n.) A very large marine fish (Megapolis Atlanticus) of the Southern United States and the West Indies. It often becomes six or more feet in length, and has large silvery scales. The scales are a staple article of trade, and are used in fancywork. Called also tarpon, sabalo, savanilla, silverfish, and jewfish.
Tarquinish (a.) Like a Tarquin, a king of ancient Rome; proud; haughty; overbearing.
Tarrace (n.) See Trass.
Tarragon (n.) A plant of the genus Artemisa (A. dracunculus), much used in France for flavoring vinegar.
Tarras (n.) See Trass.
Tarre (v.) To set on, as a dog; to incite.
Tarriance (n.) The act or time of tarrying; delay; lateness.
Tarrier (n.) One who, or that which, tarries.
Tarrier (n.) A kind of dig; a terrier.
Tarrock (n.) The young of the kittiwake gull before the first molt.
Tarrock (n.) The common guillemot.
Tarrock (n.) The common tern.
Tarry (n.) Consisting of, or covered with, tar; like tar.
Tarried (imp. & p. p.) of Tarry
Tarrying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tarry
Tarry (v. i.) To stay or remain behind; to wait.
Tarry (v. i.) To delay; to put off going or coming; to loiter.
Tarry (v. i.) To stay; to abide; to continue; to lodge.
Tarry (v. t.) To delay; to defer; to put off.
Tarry (v. t.) To wait for; to stay or stop for.
Tarry (n.) Stay; stop; delay.
Tarsal (a.) Of or pertaining to the tarsus (either of the foot or eye).
Tarsal (n.) A tarsal bone or cartilage; a tarsale.
Tarsal (n.) Same as Tercel.
Tarsalia (pl. ) of Tarsale
Tarsale (n.) One of the bones or cartilages of the tarsus; esp., one of the series articulating with the metatarsals.
Tarse (n.) The male falcon.
Tarse (n.) tarsus.
Tarsectomy (n.) The operation of excising one or more of the bones of the tarsus.
Tarsel (n.) A male hawk. See Tercel.
Tarsi (n.) pl. of Tarsus.
Tarsia (n.) Alt. of Tarsiatura
Tarsiatura (n.) A kind of mosaic in woodwork, much employed in Italy in the fifteenth century and later, in which scrolls and arabesques, and sometimes architectural scenes, landscapes, fruits, flowers, and the like, were produced by inlaying pieces of wood of different colors and shades into panels usually of walnut wood.
Tarsier (n.) See Tarsius.
Tarsius (n.) A genus of nocturnal lemurine mammals having very large eyes and ears, a long tail, and very long proximal tarsal bones; -- called also malmag, spectral lemur, podji, and tarsier.
Tarso- () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the tarsus; as, tarsometatarsus.
Tarsometatarsal (a.) Of or pertaining to both the tarsus and metatarsus; as, the tarsometatarsal articulations.
Tarsometatarsal (a.) Of or pertaining to the tarsometatarsus.
Tarsometatarsi (pl. ) of Tarsometatarsus
Tarsometatarsus (n.) The large bone next the foot in the leg of a bird. It is formed by the union of the distal part of the tarsus with the metatarsus.
Tarsorrhaphy (n.) An operation to diminish the size of the opening between eyelids when enlarged by surrounding cicatrices.
Tarsotomy (n.) The operation of cutting or removing the tarsal cartilages.
Tarsi (pl. ) of Tarsus
Tarsus (n.) The ankle; the bones or cartilages of the part of the foot between the metatarsus and the leg, consisting in man of seven short bones.
Tarsus (n.) A plate of dense connective tissue or cartilage in the eyelid of man and many animals; -- called also tarsal cartilage, and tarsal plate.
Tarsus (n.) The foot of an insect or a crustacean. It usually consists of form two to five joints.
Tart (v. t.) Sharp to the taste; acid; sour; as, a tart apple.
Tart (v. t.) Fig.: Sharp; keen; severe; as, a tart reply; tart language; a tart rebuke.
Tart (n.) A species of small open pie, or piece of pastry, containing jelly or conserve; a sort of fruit pie.
Tartan (n.) Woolen cloth, checkered or crossbarred with narrow bands of various colors, much worn in the Highlands of Scotland; hence, any pattern of tartan; also, other material of a similar pattern.
Tartan (n.) A small coasting vessel, used in the Mediterranean, having one mast carrying large leteen sail, and a bowsprit with staysail or jib.
Tartar (n.) A reddish crust or sediment in wine casks, consisting essentially of crude cream of tartar, and used in marking pure cream of tartar, tartaric acid, potassium carbonate, black flux, etc., and, in dyeing, as a mordant for woolen goods; -- called also argol, wine stone, etc.
Tartar (n.) A correction which often incrusts the teeth, consisting of salivary mucus, animal matter, and phosphate of lime.
Tartar (n.) A native or inhabitant of Tartary in Asia; a member of any one of numerous tribes, chiefly Moslem, of Turkish origin, inhabiting the Russian Europe; -- written also, more correctly but less usually, Tatar.
Tartar (n.) A person of a keen, irritable temper.
Tartar (a.) Of or pertaining to Tartary in Asia, or the Tartars.
Tartar (n.) See Tartarus.
Tartarated (a.) Tartrated.
Tartarean (a.) Alt. of Tartareous
Tartareous (a.) Of or pertaining to Tartarus; hellish.
Tartareous (a.) Consisting of tartar; of the nature of tartar.
Tartareous (a.) Having the surface rough and crumbling; as, many lichens are tartareous.
Tartarian (a.) Alt. of Tartaric
Tartaric (a.) Of or pertaining to Tartary in Asia, or the Tartars.
Tartarian (n.) The name of some kinds of cherries, as the Black Tartarian, or the White Tartarian.
Tartaric (a.) Of or pertaining to tartar; derived from, or resembling, tartar.
Tartarine (n.) Potassium carbonate, obtained by the incineration of tartar.
Tartarized (imp. & p. p.) of Tartarize
Tartarizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tartarize
Tartarize (v. t.) To impregnate with, or subject to the action of, tartar.
Tartarize (v. t.) To cause to resemble the Tartars and their civilization, as by conquest.
Tartarous (a.) Containing tartar; consisting of tartar, or partaking of its qualities; tartareous.
Tartarous (a.) Resembling, or characteristic of, a Tartar; ill-natured; irritable.
Tartarum (n.) See 1st Tartar.
Tartarus (n.) The infernal regions, described in the Iliad as situated as far below Hades as heaven is above the earth, and by later writers as the place of punishment for the spirits of the wicked. By the later poets, also, the name is often used synonymously with Hades, or the Lower World in general.
Tartary (n.) Tartarus.
Tartini's tones () See the Note under Tone.
Tartish (a.) Somewhat tart.
Tartlet (n.) A small tart.
Tartly (adv.) In a tart manner; with acidity.
Tartness (n.) The quality or state of being tart.
Tartralic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained as a white amorphous deliquescent substance, C8H10O11; -- called also ditartaric, tartrilic, or tartrylic acid.
Tartramate (n.) A salt of tartramic acid.
Tartramic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid which is the primary acid amide derivative of tartaric acid.
Tartramide (n.) An acid amide derivative of tartaric acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance.
Tartrate (n.) A salt of tartaric acid.
Tartrated (a.) Containing, or derived from, tartar; combined with tartaric acid.
Tartrazine (n.) An artificial dyestuff obtained as an orange-yellow powder, and regarded as a phenyl hydrazine derivative of tartaric and sulphonic acids.
Tartrelic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an anhydride, C4H4O5, of tartaric acid, obtained as a white crystalline deliquescent substance.
Tartro- () A combining form (also used adjectively) used in chemistry to denote the presence of tartar or of some of its compounds or derivatives.
Tartronate (n.) A salt of tartronic acid.
Tartronic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid (called also hydroxy malonic acid) obtained, by reducing mesoxalic acid, as a white crystalline substance.
Tartronyl (n.) A hypothetical radical constituting the characteristic residue of tartronic acid and certain of its derivatives.
Tartrovinic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a certain acid composed of tartaric acid in combination with ethyl, and now called ethyltartaric acid.
Tartuffe (n.) Alt. of Tartufe
Tartufe (n.) A hypocritical devotee. See the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction.
Tartuffish (a.) Alt. of Tartufish
Tartufish (a.) Like a tartuffe; precise; hypocritical.
Tarweed (n.) A name given to several resinous-glandular composite plants of California, esp. to the species of Grindelia, Hemizonia, and Madia.
Tas (n.) A heap.
Tas (v. t.) To tassel.
Tasco (n.) A kind of clay for making melting pots.
Tasimer (n.) An instrument for detecting or measuring minute extension or movements of solid bodies. It consists essentially of a small rod, disk, or button of carbon, forming part of an electrical circuit, the resistance of which, being varied by the changes of pressure produced by the movements of the object to be measured, causes variations in the strength of the current, which variations are indicated by a sensitive galvanometer. It is also used for measuring minute changes of temperature.
Task (v.) Labor or study imposed by another, often in a definite quantity or amount.
Task (v.) Business; employment; undertaking; labor.
Tasked (imp. & p. p.) of Task
Tasking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Task
Task (v. t.) To impose a task upon; to assign a definite amount of business, labor, or duty to.
Task (v. t.) To oppress with severe or excessive burdens; to tax.
Task (v. t.) To charge; to tax; as with a fault.
Tasker (n.) One who imposes a task.
Tasker (n.) One who performs a task, as a day-laborer.
Tasker (n.) A laborer who receives his wages in kind.
Taskmaster (n.) One who imposes a task, or burdens another with labor; one whose duty is to assign tasks; an overseer.
Taskwork (n.) Work done as a task; also, work done by the job; piecework.
Taslet (n.) A piece of armor formerly worn to guard the things; a tasse.
Tasmanian (a.) Of or pertaining to Tasmania, or Van Diemen's Land. -- n. A native or inhabitant of Tasmania; specifically (Ethnol.), in the plural, the race of men that formerly inhabited Tasmania, but is now extinct.
Tasse (n.) A piece of armor for the thighs, forming an appendage to the ancient corselet.
Tassel (n.) A male hawk. See Tercel.
Tassel (n.) A kind of bur used in dressing cloth; a teasel.
Tassel (n.) A pendent ornament, attached to the corners of cushions, to curtains, and the like, ending in a tuft of loose threads or cords.
Tassel (n.) The flower or head of some plants, esp. when pendent.
Tassel (n.) A narrow silk ribbon, or the like, sewed to a book to be put between the leaves.
Tassel (n.) A piece of board that is laid upon a wall as a sort of plate, to give a level surface to the ends of floor timbers; -- rarely used in the United States.
Tasseled (imp. & p. p.) of Tassel
Tasselled () of Tassel
Tasseling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tassel
Tasselling () of Tassel
Tassel (v. i.) To put forth a tassel or flower; as, maize tassels.
Tassel (v. t.) To adorn with tassels.
Tasset (n.) A defense for the front of the thigh, consisting of one or more iron plates hanging from the belt on the lower edge of the corselet.
Tastable (a.) Capable of worthy of being tasted; savory; relishing.
Tasted (imp. & p. p.) of Taste
Tasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Taste
Taste (v. t.) To try by the touch; to handle; as, to taste a bow.
Taste (v. t.) To try by the touch of the tongue; to perceive the relish or flavor of (anything) by taking a small quantity into a mouth. Also used figuratively.
Taste (v. t.) To try by eating a little; to eat a small quantity of.
Taste (v. t.) To become acquainted with by actual trial; to essay; to experience; to undergo.
Taste (v. t.) To partake of; to participate in; -- usually with an implied sense of relish or pleasure.
Taste (v. i.) To try food with the mouth; to eat or drink a little only; to try the flavor of anything; as, to taste of each kind of wine.
Taste (v. i.) To have a smack; to excite a particular sensation, by which the specific quality or flavor is distinguished; to have a particular quality or character; as, this water tastes brackish; the milk tastes of garlic.
Taste (v. i.) To take sparingly.
Taste (v. i.) To have perception, experience, or enjoyment; to partake; as, to taste of nature's bounty.
Taste (n.) The act of tasting; gustation.
Taste (n.) A particular sensation excited by the application of a substance to the tongue; the quality or savor of any substance as perceived by means of the tongue; flavor; as, the taste of an orange or an apple; a bitter taste; an acid taste; a sweet taste.
Taste (n.) The one of the five senses by which certain properties of bodies (called their taste, savor, flavor) are ascertained by contact with the organs of taste.
Taste (n.) Intellectual relish; liking; fondness; -- formerly with of, now with for; as, he had no taste for study.
Taste (n.) The power of perceiving and relishing excellence in human performances; the faculty of discerning beauty, order, congruity, proportion, symmetry, or whatever constitutes excellence, particularly in the fine arts and belles-letters; critical judgment; discernment.
Taste (n.) Manner, with respect to what is pleasing, refined, or in accordance with good usage; style; as, music composed in good taste; an epitaph in bad taste.
Taste (n.) Essay; trial; experience; experiment.
Taste (n.) A small portion given as a specimen; a little piece tastted of eaten; a bit.
Taste (n.) A kind of narrow and thin silk ribbon.
Tasteful (a.) Having a high relish; savory.
Tasteful (a.) Having or exhibiting good taste; in accordance with good taste; tasty; as, a tasteful drapery.
Tasteless (a.) Having no taste; insipid; flat; as, tasteless fruit.
Tasteless (a.) Destitute of the sense of taste; or of good taste; as, a tasteless age.
Tasteless (a.) Not in accordance with good taste; as, a tasteless arrangement of drapery.
Taster (n.) One who tastes; especially, one who first tastes food or drink to ascertain its quality.
Taster (n.) That in which, or by which, anything is tasted, as, a dram cup, a cheese taster, or the like.
Taster (n.) One of a peculiar kind of zooids situated on the polyp-stem of certain Siphonophora. They somewhat resemble the feeding zooids, but are destitute of mouths. See Siphonophora.
Tastily (adv.) In a tasty manner.
Tasting (n.) The act of perceiving or tasting by the organs of taste; the faculty or sense by which we perceive or distinguish savors.
Tasto (n.) A key or thing touched to produce a tone.
Tasty (superl.) Having a good taste; -- applied to persons; as, a tasty woman. See Taste, n., 5.
Tasty (n.) Being in conformity to the principles of good taste; elegant; as, tasty furniture; a tasty dress.
Tat (n.) Gunny cloth made from the fiber of the Corchorus olitorius, or jute.
Tat (n.) A pony.
Tataupa (n.) A South American tinamou (Crypturus tataupa).
Tatch (n.) A spot or stain; also, a trick.
Tath (obs.) 3d pers. sing. pres. of Ta, to take.
Tath (n.) Dung, or droppings of cattle.
Tath (n.) The luxuriant grass growing about the droppings of cattle in a pasture.
Tath (v. t.) To manure (land) by pasturing cattle on it, or causing them to lie upon it.
Tatou (n.) The giant armadillo (Priodontes gigas) of tropical South America. It becomes nearly five feet long including the tail. It is noted for its burrowing powers, feeds largely upon dead animals, and sometimes invades human graves.
Tatouay (n.) An armadillo (Xenurus unicinctus), native of the tropical parts of South America. It has about thirteen movable bands composed of small, nearly square, scales. The head is long; the tail is round and tapered, and nearly destitute of scales; the claws of the fore feet are very large. Called also tatouary, and broad-banded armadillo.
Tatouhou (n.) The peba.
Tatt (v. t. & i.) To make (anything) by tatting; to work at tatting; as, tatted edging.
Tatta (n.) A bamboo frame or trellis hung at a door or window of a house, over which water is suffered to trickle, in order to moisten and cool the air as it enters.
Tatter (n.) One who makes tatting.
Tatter (n.) A rag, or a part torn and hanging; -- chiefly used in the plural.
Tattered (p. p.) of Tatter
Tatter (v. t.) To rend or tear into rags; -- used chiefly in the past participle as an adjective.
Tatterdemalion (n.) A ragged fellow; a ragamuffin.
Tatting (n.) A kind of lace made from common sewing thread, with a peculiar stitch.
Tattled (imp. & p. p.) of Tattle
Tattling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tattle
Tattle (v. i.) To prate; to talk idly; to use many words with little meaning; to chat.
Tattle (v. i.) To tell tales; to communicate secrets; to be a talebearer; as, a tattling girl.
Tattle (n.) Idle talk or chat; trifling talk; prate.
Tattler (n.) One who tattles; an idle talker; one who tells tales.
Tattler (n.) Any one of several species of large, long-legged sandpipers belonging to the genus Totanus.
Tattlery (n.) Idle talk or chat; tittle-tattle.
Tattling (a.) Given to idle talk; apt to tell tales.
Tattoo (n.) A beat of drum, or sound of a trumpet or bugle, at night, giving notice to soldiers to retreat, or to repair to their quarters in garrison, or to their tents in camp.
Tattooed (imp. & p. p.) of Tattoo
Tattooing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tattoo
Tattoo (v. t.) To color, as the flesh, by pricking in coloring matter, so as to form marks or figures which can not be washed out.
Tattoos (pl. ) of Tattoo
Tattoo (n.) An indelible mark or figure made by puncturing the skin and introducing some pigment into the punctures; -- a mode of ornamentation practiced by various barbarous races, both in ancient and modern times, and also by some among civilized nations, especially by sailors.
Tatu (n.) Same as Tatou.
Tatusiid (n.) Any armadillo of the family Tatusiidae, of which the peba and mule armadillo are examples. Also used adjectively.
Tau (n.) The common American toadfish; -- so called from a marking resembling the Greek letter tau (/).
Taught (a.) See Taut.
Taught () imp. & p. p. of Teach.
Taunt (a.) Very high or tall; as, a ship with taunt masts.
Taunted (imp. & p. p.) of Taunt
Taunting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Taunt
Taunt (v. t.) To reproach with severe or insulting words; to revile; to upbraid; to jeer at; to flout.
Taunt (n.) Upbraiding language; bitter or sarcastic reproach; insulting invective.
Taunter (n.) One who taunts.
Taunting () a. & n. from Taunt, v.
Tauntingly (adv.) In a taunting manner.
Tauntress (n.) A woman who taunts.
Taur (n.) The constellation Taurus.
Tauricornous (a.) Having horns like those of a bull.
Tauridor (n.) A bullfighter; a toreador.
Tauriform (a.) Having the form of a bull.
Taurine (a.) Of or pertaining to the genus Taurus, or cattle.
Taurine (n.) A body occurring in small quantity in the juices of muscle, in the lungs, and elsewhere, but especially in the bile, where it is found as a component part of taurocholic acid, from which it can be prepared by decomposition of the acid. It crystallizes in colorless, regular six-sided prisms, and is especially characterized by containing both nitrogen and sulphur, being chemically amido-isethionic acid, C2H7NSO3.
Taurocholate (n.) A salt of taurocholic acid; as, sodium taurocholate, which occurs in human bile.
Taurocholic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a conjugate acid (called taurocholic acid) composed of taurine and cholic acid, present abundantly in human bile and in that of carnivora. It is exceedingly deliquescent, and hence appears generally as a thick, gummy mass, easily soluble in water and alcohol. It has a bitter taste.
Taurocol (n.) Alt. of Taurocolla
Taurocolla (n.) Glue made from a bull's hide.
Tauromachian (a.) Of or pertaining to bullfights.
Tauromachian (n.) A bullfighter.
Tauromachy (n.) Bullfighting.
Taurus (n.) The Bull; the second in order of the twelve signs of the zodiac, which the sun enters about the 20th of April; -- marked thus [/] in almanacs.
Taurus (n.) A zodiacal constellation, containing the well-known clusters called the Pleiades and the Hyades, in the latter of which is situated the remarkably bright Aldebaran.
Taurus (n.) A genus of ruminants comprising the common domestic cattle.
Taurylic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found of a urine of neat cattle, and probably identical with cresol.
Taut (a.) Tight; stretched; not slack; -- said esp. of a rope that is tightly strained.
Taut (a.) Snug; close; firm; secure.
Tautegorical (a.) Expressing the same thing with different words; -- opposed to allegorical.
Tautochrone (n.) A curved line, such that a heavy body, descending along it by the action of gravity, will always arrive at the lowest point in the same time, wherever in the curve it may begin to fall; as, an inverted cycloid with its base horizontal is a tautochrone.
Tautochronous (a.) Occupying the same time; pertaining to, or having the properties of, a tautochrone.
Tautog (n.) An edible labroid fish (Haitula onitis, or Tautoga onitis) of the Atlantic coast of the United States. When adult it is nearly black, more or less irregularly barred, with greenish gray. Called also blackfish, oyster fish, salt-water chub, and moll.
Tautologic (a.) Tautological.
Tautological (a.) Involving tautology; having the same signification; as, tautological expression.
Tautologist (n.) One who uses tautological words or phrases.
Tautologized (imp. & p. p.) of Tautologize
Tautologizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tautologize
Tautologize (v. i.) To repeat the same thing in different words.
Tautologous (a.) Repeating the same thing in different words; tautological.
Tautology (n.) A repetition of the same meaning in different words; needless repetition of an idea in different words or phrases; a representation of anything as the cause, condition, or consequence of itself, as in the following lines: --//The dawn is overcast, the morning lowers,/And heavily in clouds brings on the day. Addison.
Tautomeric (a.) Relating to, or characterized by, tautomerism.
Tautomerism (n.) The condition, quality, or relation of metameric substances, or their respective derivatives, which are more or less interchangeable, according as one form or the other is the more stable. It is a special case of metamerism; thus, the lactam and the lactim compounds exhibit tautomerism.
Tautoousian (a.) Alt. of Tautoousious
Tautoousious (a.) Having the same essence; being identically of the same nature.
Tautophonical (a.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, tautophony; repeating the same sound.
Tautophony (n.) Repetition of the same sound.
Tautozonal (a.) Belonging to the same zone; as, tautozonal planes.
Tavern (n.) A public house where travelers and other transient guests are accomodated with rooms and meals; an inn; a hotel; especially, in modern times, a public house licensed to sell liquor in small quantities.
Taverner (n.) One who keeps a tavern.
Taverning (n.) A feasting at taverns.
Tavernmen (pl. ) of Tavernman
Tavernman (n.) The keeper of a tavern; also, a tippler.
Taw (n.) Tow.
Taw (v. t.) To push; to tug; to tow.
Tawed (imp. & p. p.) of Taw
Tawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Taw
Taw (v. t.) To prepare or dress, as hemp, by beating; to tew; hence, to beat; to scourge.
Taw (v. t.) To dress and prepare, as the skins of sheep, lambs, goats, and kids, for gloves, and the like, by imbuing them with alum, salt, and other agents, for softening and bleaching them.
Taw (n.) A large marble to be played with; also, a game at marbles.
Taw (n.) A line or mark from which the players begin a game of marbles.
Tawdrily (adv.) In a tawdry manner.
Tawdriness (n.) Quality or state of being tawdry.
Tawdry (superl.) Bought at the festival of St. Audrey.
Tawdry (superl.) Very fine and showy in colors, without taste or elegance; having an excess of showy ornaments without grace; cheap and gaudy; as, a tawdry dress; tawdry feathers; tawdry colors.
Tawdries (pl. ) of Tawdry
Tawdry (n.) A necklace of a rural fashion, bought at St. Audrey's fair; hence, a necklace in general.
Tawer (n.) One who taws; a dresser of white leather.
Tawery (n.) A place where skins are tawed.
Tawniness (n.) The quality or state of being tawny.
Tawny (n.) Of a dull yellowish brown color, like things tanned, or persons who are sunburnt; as, tawny Moor or Spaniard; the tawny lion.
Taws (n.) A leather lash, or other instrument of punishment, used by a schoolmaster.
Tax (n.) A charge, especially a pecuniary burden which is imposed by authority.
Tax (n.) A charge or burden laid upon persons or property for the support of a government.
Tax (n.) Especially, the sum laid upon specific things, as upon polls, lands, houses, income, etc.; as, a land tax; a window tax; a tax on carriages, and the like.
Tax (n.) A sum imposed or levied upon the members of a society to defray its expenses.
Tax (n.) A task exacted from one who is under control; a contribution or service, the rendering of which is imposed upon a subject.
Tax (n.) A disagreeable or burdensome duty or charge; as, a heavy tax on time or health.
Tax (n.) Charge; censure.
Tax (n.) A lesson to be learned; a task.
Taxed (imp. & p. p.) of Tax
Taxing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tax
Tax (n.) To subject to the payment of a tax or taxes; to impose a tax upon; to lay a burden upon; especially, to exact money from for the support of government.
Tax (n.) To assess, fix, or determine judicially, the amount of; as, to tax the cost of an action in court.
Tax (n.) To charge; to accuse; also, to censure; -- often followed by with, rarely by of before an indirect object; as, to tax a man with pride.
Taxability (n.) The quality or state of being taxable; taxableness.
Taxable (a.) Capable of being taxed; liable by law to the assessment of taxes; as, taxable estate; taxable commodities.
Taxable (a.) That may be legally charged by a court against the plaintiff of defendant in a suit; as, taxable costs.
Taxaspidean (a.) Having the posterior tarsal scales, or scutella, rectangular and arranged in regular rows; -- said of certain birds.
Taxation (n.) The act of laying a tax, or of imposing taxes, as on the subjects of a state, by government, or on the members of a corporation or company, by the proper authority; the raising of revenue; also, a system of raising revenue.
Taxation (n.) The act of taxing, or assessing a bill of cost.
Taxation (n.) Tax; sum imposed.
Taxation (n.) Charge; accusation.
Taxel (n.) The American badger.
Taxeopoda (n. pl.) An order of extinct Mammalia found in the Tertiary formations.
Taxer (n.) One who taxes.
Taxer (n.) One of two officers chosen yearly to regulate the assize of bread, and to see the true gauge of weights and measures is observed.
Taxgatherer (n.) One who collects taxes or revenues.
Taxiarch (n.) An Athenian military officer commanding a certain division of an army.
Taxicorn (n.) One of a family of beetles (Taxicornes) whose antennae are largest at the tip. Also used adjectively.
Taxidermic (a.) Of or pertaining to the art of preparing and preserving the skins of animals.
Taxidermist (n.) A person skilled in taxidermy.
Taxidermy (v. t.) The art of preparing, preserving, and mounting the skins of animals so as to represent their natural appearance, as for cabinets.
Taxine (n.) A poisonous alkaloid of bitter taste extracted from the leaves and seeds of the European yew (Taxus baccata). Called also taxia.
Taxis (n.) Manipulation applied to a hernial tumor, or to an intestinal obstruction, for the purpose of reducing it.
Taxless (a.) Free from taxation.
Taxology (n.) Same as Taxonomy.
Taxonomic (a.) Pertaining to, or involving, taxonomy, or the laws and principles of classification; classificatory.
Taxonomist (n.) One skilled in taxonomy.
Taxonomy (n.) That division of the natural sciences which treats of the classification of animals and plants; the laws or principles of classification.
Taxor (n.) Same as Taxer, n., 2.
Taxpayer (n.) One who is assessed and pays a tax.
Tayra (n.) A South American carnivore (Galera barbara) allied to the grison. The tail is long and thick. The length, including the tail, is about three feet.
Tazel (n.) The teasel.
Tazza (n.) An ornamental cup or vase with a large, flat, shallow bowl, resting on a pedestal and often having handles.
Tchawytcha (n.) The quinnat salmon.
T cart () See under T.
Tea (n.) The prepared leaves of a shrub, or small tree (Thea, / Camellia, Chinensis). The shrub is a native of China, but has been introduced to some extent into some other countries.
Tea (n.) A decoction or infusion of tea leaves in boiling water; as, tea is a common beverage.
Tea (n.) Any infusion or decoction, especially when made of the dried leaves of plants; as, sage tea; chamomile tea; catnip tea.
Tea (n.) The evening meal, at which tea is usually served; supper.
Tea (v. i.) To take or drink tea.
Teaberry (n.) The checkerberry.
Taught (imp. & p. p.) of Teach
Teaching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Teach
Teach (v. t.) To impart the knowledge of; to give intelligence concerning; to impart, as knowledge before unknown, or rules for practice; to inculcate as true or important; to exhibit impressively; as, to teach arithmetic, dancing, music, or the like; to teach morals.
Teach (v. t.) To direct, as an instructor; to manage, as a preceptor; to guide the studies of; to instruct; to inform; to conduct through a course of studies; as, to teach a child or a class.
Teach (v. t.) To accustom; to guide; to show; to admonish.
Teach (v. i.) To give instruction; to follow the business, or to perform the duties, of a preceptor.
Teachable (a.) Capable of being taught; apt to learn; also, willing to receive instruction; docile.
Teachableness (n.) Willingness to be taught.
Teache (n.) One of the series of boilers in which the cane juice is treated in making sugar; especially, the last boiler of the series.
Teacher (n.) One who teaches or instructs; one whose business or occupation is to instruct others; an instructor; a tutor.
Teacher (n.) One who instructs others in religion; a preacher; a minister of the gospel; sometimes, one who preaches without regular ordination.
Teaching (n.) The act or business of instructing; also, that which is taught; instruction.
Teachless (a.) Not teachable.
Teacup (n.) A small cup from which to drink tea.
Teacupfuls (pl. ) of Teacupful
Teacupful (n.) As much as a teacup can hold; enough to fill a teacup.
Tead (n.) Alt. of Teade
Teade (n.) A torch.
Teagle (n.) A hoisting apparatus; an elevator; a crane; a lift.
Teague (n.) An Irishman; -- a term used in contempt.
Teak (n.) A tree of East Indies (Tectona grandis) which furnishes an extremely strong and durable timber highly valued for shipbuilding and other purposes; also, the timber of the tree.
Teakettle (n.) A kettle in which water is boiled for making tea, coffee, etc.
Teal (n.) Any one of several species of small fresh-water ducks of the genus Anas and the subgenera Querquedula and Nettion. The male is handsomely colored, and has a bright green or blue speculum on the wings.
Team (n.) A group of young animals, especially of young ducks; a brood; a litter.
Team (n.) Hence, a number of animals moving together.
Team (n.) Two or more horses, oxen, or other beasts harnessed to the same vehicle for drawing, as to a coach, wagon, sled, or the like.
Team (n.) A number of persons associated together in any work; a gang; especially, a number of persons selected to contend on one side in a match, or a series of matches, in a cricket, football, rowing, etc.
Team (n.) A flock of wild ducks.
Team (n.) A royalty or privilege granted by royal charter to a lord of a manor, of having, keeping, and judging in his court, his bondmen, neifes, and villains, and their offspring, or suit, that is, goods and chattels, and appurtenances thereto.
Team (v. i.) To engage in the occupation of driving a team of horses, cattle, or the like, as in conveying or hauling lumber, goods, etc.; to be a teamster.
Team (v. t.) To convey or haul with a team; as, to team lumber.
Teamed (a.) Yoked in, or as in, a team.
Teaming (n.) The act or occupation of driving a team, or of hauling or carrying, as logs, goods, or the like, with a team.
Teaming (n.) Contract work.
Teamster (n.) One who drives a team.
Teamwork (n.) Work done by a team, as distinguished from that done by personal labor.
Teapot (n.) A vessel with a spout, in which tea is made, and from which it is poured into teacups.
Teapoy (n.) An ornamental stand, usually with three legs, having caddies for holding tea.
Tear (n.) A drop of the limpid, saline fluid secreted, normally in small amount, by the lachrymal gland, and diffused between the eye and the eyelids to moisten the parts and facilitate their motion. Ordinarily the secretion passes through the lachrymal duct into the nose, but when it is increased by emotion or other causes, it overflows the lids.
Tear (n.) Something in the form of a transparent drop of fluid matter; also, a solid, transparent, tear-shaped drop, as of some balsams or resins.
Tear (n.) That which causes or accompanies tears; a lament; a dirge.
Tore (imp.) of Tear
Tare () of Tear
Torn (p. p.) of Tear
Tearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tear
Tear (v. t.) To separate by violence; to pull apart by force; to rend; to lacerate; as, to tear cloth; to tear a garment; to tear the skin or flesh.
Tear (v. t.) Hence, to divide by violent measures; to disrupt; to rend; as, a party or government torn by factions.
Tear (v. t.) To rend away; to force away; to remove by force; to sunder; as, a child torn from its home.
Tear (v. t.) To pull with violence; as, to tear the hair.
Tear (v. t.) To move violently; to agitate.
Tear (v. i.) To divide or separate on being pulled; to be rent; as, this cloth tears easily.
Tear (v. i.) To move and act with turbulent violence; to rush with violence; hence, to rage; to rave.
Tear (n.) The act of tearing, or the state of being torn; a rent; a fissure.
Tearer (n.) One who tears or rends anything; also, one who rages or raves with violence.
Tear-falling (a.) Shedding tears; tender.
Tearful (a.) Abounding with tears; weeping; shedding tears; as, tearful eyes.
Tearless (a.) Shedding no tears; free from tears; unfeeling.
Tearpit (n.) A cavity or pouch beneath the lower eyelid of most deer and antelope; the lachrymal sinus; larmier. It is capable of being opened at pleasure and secretes a waxy substance.
Tear-thumb (n.) A name given to several species of plants of the genus Polygonum, having angular stems beset with minute reflexed prickles.
Teary (a.) Wet with tears; tearful.
Teary (a.) Consisting of tears, or drops like tears.
Tea-saucer (n.) A small saucer in which a teacup is set.
Teased (imp. & p. p.) of Tease
Teasing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tease
Tease (v. t.) To comb or card, as wool or flax.
Tease (v. t.) To stratch, as cloth, for the purpose of raising a nap; teasel.
Tease (v. t.) To tear or separate into minute shreds, as with needles or similar instruments.
Tease (v. t.) To vex with importunity or impertinence; to harass, annoy, disturb, or irritate by petty requests, or by jests and raillery; to plague.
Tease (n.) One who teases or plagues.
Teasel (n.) A plant of the genus Dipsacus, of which one species (D. fullonum) bears a large flower head covered with stiff, prickly, hooked bracts. This flower head, when dried, is used for raising a nap on woolen cloth.
Teasel (n.) A bur of this plant.
Teasel (n.) Any contrivance intended as a substitute for teasels in dressing cloth.
Teaseled (imp. & p. p.) of Teasel
Teaselled () of Teasel
Teaseling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Teasel
Teaselling () of Teasel
Teasel (v. t.) To subject, as woolen cloth, to the action of teasels, or any substitute for them which has an effect to raise a nap.
Teaseler (n.) One who uses teasels for raising a nap on cloth.
Teaseling (n.) The cutting and gathering of teasels; the use of teasels.
Teaser (n.) One who teases or vexes.
Teaser (n.) A jager gull.
Teasle (n. & v. t.) See Teasel.
Teaspoon (n.) A small spoon used in stirring and sipping tea, coffee, etc., and for other purposes.
Teaspoonfuls (pl. ) of Teaspoonful
Teaspoonful (n.) As much as teaspoon will hold; enough to fill a teaspoon; -- usually reckoned at a fluid dram or one quarter of a tablespoonful.
Teat (n.) The protuberance through which milk is drawn from the udder or breast of a mammal; a nipple; a pap; a mammilla; a dug; a tit.
Teat (n.) A small protuberance or nozzle resembling the teat of an animal.
Teated (a.) Having protuberances resembling the teat of an animal.
Teathe (n. & v.) See Tath.
Teatish (a.) Peevish; tettish; fretful; -- said of a child. See Tettish.
Teaze-hole (n.) The opening in the furnaces through which fuel is introduced.
Teazel (n. & v. t.) See Teasel.
Teazer (n.) The stoker or fireman of a furnace, as in glass works.
Teazle (n. & v. t.) See Teasel.
Tebeth (n.) The tenth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering to a part of December with a part of January.
Techily (adv.) In a techy manner.
Techiness (n.) The quality or state of being techy.
Technic (a.) Technical.
Technic (a.) The method of performance in any art; technical skill; artistic execution; technique.
Technic (a.) Technical terms or objects; things pertaining to the practice of an art or science.
Technical (a.) Of or pertaining to the useful or mechanic arts, or to any science, business, or the like; specially appropriate to any art, science, or business; as, the words of an indictment must be technical.
Technicalities (pl. ) of Technicality
Technicality (n.) The quality or state of being technical; technicalness.
Technicality (n.) That which is technical, or peculiar to any trade, profession, sect, or the like.
Technically (adv.) In a technical manner; according to the signification of terms as used in any art, business, or profession.
Technicalness (n.) The quality or state of being technical; technicality.
Technicals (n. pl.) Those things which pertain to the practical part of an art, science, or profession; technical terms; technics.
Technicist (n.) One skilled in technics or in one or more of the practical arts.
Technicological (a.) Technological; technical.
Technicology (n.) Technology.
Technics (n.) The doctrine of arts in general; such branches of learning as respect the arts.
Technique (n.) Same as Technic, n.
Technism (n.) Technicality.
Technologic (a.) Technological.
Technological (a.) Of or pertaining to technology.
Technologist (n.) One skilled in technology; one who treats of arts, or of the terms of arts.
Technology (n.) Industrial science; the science of systematic knowledge of the industrial arts, especially of the more important manufactures, as spinning, weaving, metallurgy, etc.
Techy (a.) Peevish; fretful; irritable.
Tectibranch (n.) One of the Tectibranchiata. Also used adjectively.
Tectibranchia (n. pl.) Same as Tectibranchiata.
Tectibranchiata (n. pl.) An order, or suborder, of gastropod Mollusca in which the gills are usually situated on one side of the back, and protected by a fold of the mantle. When there is a shell, it is usually thin and delicate and often rudimentary. The aplysias and the bubble shells are examples.
Tectibranchiate (a.) Having the gills covered by the mantle; of or pertaining to the Tectibranchiata.
Tectibranchiate (n.) A tectibranchiate mollusk.
Tectly (adv.) Covertly; privately; secretly.
Tectology (n.) A division of morphology created by Haeckel; the science of organic individuality constituting the purely structural portion of morphology, in which the organism is regarded as composed of organic individuals of different orders, each organ being considered an individual. See Promorphology, and Morphon.
Tectonic (a.) Of or pertaining to building or construction; architectural.
Tectonics (n.) The science, or the art, by which implements, vessels, dwellings, or other edifices, are constructed, both agreeably to the end for which they are designed, and in conformity with artistic sentiments and ideas.
Tectorial (a.) Of or pertaining to covering; -- applied to a membrane immediately over the organ of Corti in the internal ear.
Tectrices (n. pl.) The wing coverts of a bird. See Covert, and Illust. of Bird.
Tecum (n.) See Tucum.
Tedded (imp. & p. p.) of Ted
Tedding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ted
Ted (v. t.) To spread, or turn from the swath, and scatter for drying, as new-mowed grass; -- chiefly used in the past participle.
Tedder (n.) A machine for stirring and spreading hay, to expedite its drying.
Tedder (n.) Same as Tether.
Teddered (imp. & p. p.) of Tedder
Teddering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tedder
Tedder (v. t.) Same as Tether.
Te Deum () An ancient and celebrated Christian hymn, of uncertain authorship, but often ascribed to St. Ambrose; -- so called from the first words "Te Deum laudamus." It forms part of the daily matins of the Roman Catholic breviary, and is sung on all occasions of thanksgiving. In its English form, commencing with words, "We praise thee, O God," it forms a part of the regular morning service of the Church of England and the Protestant Episcopal Church in America.
Te Deum () A religious service in which the singing of the hymn forms a principal part.
Tedge (n.) The gate of a mold, through which the melted metal is poured; runner, geat.
Tediosity (n.) Tediousness.
Tedious (a.) Involving tedium; tiresome from continuance, prolixity, slowness, or the like; wearisome.
Tedium (n.) Irksomeness; wearisomeness; tediousness.
Tee (n.) The mark aimed at in curling and in quoits.
Tee (n.) The nodule of earth from which the ball is struck in golf.
Tee (n.) A short piece of pipe having a lateral outlet, used to connect a line of pipe with a pipe at a right angle with the line; -- so called because it resembles the letter T in shape.
Tee iron () See T iron, under T.
Teek (n.) See Teak.
Teel (n.) Sesame.
Teelseed (n.) The seed of sesame.
Teem (v. t.) To pour; -- commonly followed by out; as, to teem out ale.
Teem (v. t.) To pour, as steel, from a melting pot; to fill, as a mold, with molten metal.
Teem (a.) To think fit.
Teemed (imp. & p. p.) of Teem
Teeming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Teem
Teem (v. i.) To bring forth young, as an animal; to produce fruit, as a plant; to bear; to be pregnant; to conceive; to multiply.
Teem (v. i.) To be full, or ready to bring forth; to be stocked to overflowing; to be prolific; to abound.
Teem (v. t.) To produce; to bring forth.
Teemer (n.) One who teems, or brings forth.
Teemful (a.) Pregnant; prolific.
Teemful (a.) Brimful.
Teeming (a.) Prolific; productive.
Teemless (a.) Not fruitful or prolific; barren; as, a teemless earth.
Teen (n.) Grief; sorrow; affiction; pain.
Teen (n.) To excite; to provoke; to vex; to affict; to injure.
Teen (v. t.) To hedge or fence in; to inclose.
Teenage (n.) The longer wood for making or mending fences.
Teend (v. t. & i.) To kindle; to burn.
Teenful (a.) Full of teen; harmful; grievous; grieving; afflicted.
Teens (n. pl.) The years of one's age having the termination -teen, beginning with thirteen and ending with nineteen; as, a girl in her teens.
Teeny (a.) Very small; tiny.
Teeny (a.) Fretful; peevish; pettish; cross.
Teeong (n.) The mino bird.
Teest (n.) A tinsmith's stake, or small anvil.
Teetan (n.) A pipit.
Teetee (n.) Any one of several species of small, soft-furred South American monkeys belonging to Callithrix, Chrysothrix, and allied genera; as, the collared teetee (Callithrix torquatus), and the squirrel teetee (Chrysothrix sciurea). Called also pinche, titi, and saimiri. See Squirrel monkey, under Squirrel.
Teetee (n.) A diving petrel of Australia (Halodroma wrinatrix).
Teetered (imp. & p. p.) of Teeter
Teetering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Teeter
Teeter (v. i. & t.) To move up and down on the ends of a balanced plank, or the like, as children do for sport; to seesaw; to titter; to titter-totter.
Teeter-tail (n.) The spotted sandpiper. See the Note under Sandpiper.
Teeth (n.) pl. of Tooth.
Teethed (imp. & p. p.) of Teeth
Teething (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Teeth
Teeth (v. i.) To breed, or grow, teeth.
Teething (n.) The process of the first growth of teeth, or the phenomena attending their issue through the gums; dentition.
Teetotal (a.) Entire; total.
Teetotaler (n.) One pledged to entire abstinence from all intoxicating drinks.
Teetotalism (n.) The principle or practice of entire abstinence, esp. from intoxicating drinks.
Teetotally (adv.) Entirely; totally.
Teetotum (n.) A child's toy, somewhat resembling a top, and twirled by the fingers.
Teetuck (n.) The rock pipit.
Teeuck (n.) The lapwing.
Teewit (n.) The pewit.
Teg (n.) A sheep in its second year; also, a doe in its second year.
Tegmina (pl. ) of Tegmen
Tegmen (n.) A tegument or covering.
Tegmen (n.) The inner layer of the coating of a seed, usually thin and delicate; the endopleura.
Tegmen (n.) One of the elytra of an insect, especially of certain Orthoptera.
Tegmen (n.) Same as Tectrices.
Tegmental (a.) Of or pertaining to a tegument or tegmentum; as, the tegmental layer of the epiblast; the tegmental cells of the taste buds.
Tegmenta (pl. ) of Tegmentum
Tegmentum (n.) A covering; -- applied especially to the bundles of longitudinal fibers in the upper part of the crura of the cerebrum.
Teguexin (n.) A large South American lizard (Tejus teguexin). It becomes three or four feet long, and is blackish above, marked with yellowish spots of various sizes. It feeds upon fruits, insects, reptiles, young birds, and birds' eggs. The closely allied species Tejus rufescens is called red teguexin.
Tegulae (pl. ) of Tegula
Tegula (n.) A small appendage situated above the base of the wings of Hymenoptera and attached to the mesonotum.
Tegular (a.) Of or pertaining to a tile; resembling a tile, or arranged like tiles; consisting of tiles; as, a tegular pavement.
Tegulated (a.) Composed of small plates, as of horn or metal, overlapping like tiles; -- said of a kind of ancient armor.
Tegument (n.) A cover or covering; an integument.
Tegument (n.) Especially, the covering of a living body, or of some part or organ of such a body; skin; hide.
Tegumentary (a.) Of or pertaining to a tegument or teguments; consisting of teguments; serving as a tegument or covering.
Te-hee (n. & interj.) A tittering laugh; a titter.
Te-hee (v. i.) To titter; to laugh derisively.
Teil (n.) The lime tree, or linden; -- called also teil tree.
Teind (n.) A tithe.
Teine (n.) See Teyne.
Teinland (n.) Land granted by the crown to a thane or lord.
Teinoscope (n.) An instrument formed by combining prisms so as to correct the chromatic aberration of the light while linear dimensions of objects seen through the prisms are increased or diminished; -- called also prism telescope.
Teint (n.) Tint; color; tinge, See Tint.
Teinture (n.) Color; tinge; tincture.
Tek (n.) A Siberian ibex.
Telamones (n. pl.) Same as Atlantes.
Telangiectasis (n.) Dilatation of the capillary vessels.
Telangiectasy (n.) Telangiectasis.
Telarly (adv.) In a weblike manner.
Telary (a.) Of or pertaining to a web; hence, spinning webs; retiary.
Teledu (n.) An East Indian carnivore (Mydaus meliceps) allied to the badger, and noted for the very offensive odor that it emits, somewhat resembling that of a skunk. It is a native of the high mountains of Java and Sumatra, and has long, silky fur. Called also stinking badger, and stinkard.
Telegram (n.) A message sent by telegraph; a telegraphic dispatch.
Telegrammic (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a telegram; laconic; concise; brief.
Telegraph (n.) An apparatus, or a process, for communicating intelligence rapidly between distant points, especially by means of preconcerted visible or audible signals representing words or ideas, or by means of words and signs, transmitted by electrical action.
Telegraphed (imp. & p. p.) of Telegraph
Telegraphing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Telegraph
Telegraph (v. t.) To convey or announce by telegraph.
Telegrapher (n.) One who sends telegraphic messages; a telegraphic operator; a telegraphist.
Telegraphic (a.) Of or pertaining to the telegraph; made or communicated by a telegraph; as, telegraphic signals; telegraphic art; telegraphic intelligence.
Telegraphical (a.) Telegraphic.
Telegraphist (n.) One skilled in telegraphy; a telegrapher.
Telegraphy (n.) The science or art of constructing, or of communicating by means of, telegraphs; as, submarine telegraphy.
Telemeter (n.) An instrument used for measuring the distance of an object from an observer; as, a telescope with a micrometer for measuring the apparent diameter of an object whose real dimensions are known.
Teleocephial (n. pl.) An extensive order of bony fishes including most of the common market species, as bass, salmon, cod, perch, etc.
Teleological (a.) Of or pertaining to teleology, or the doctrine of design.
Teleologist (n.) One versed in teleology.
Teleology (n.) The doctrine of the final causes of things
Teleology (n.) the doctrine of design, which assumes that the phenomena of organic life, particularly those of evolution, are explicable only by purposive causes, and that they in no way admit of a mechanical explanation or one based entirely on biological science; the doctrine of adaptation to purpose.
Teleophore (n.) Same as Gonotheca.
Teleorganic (a.) Vital; as, teleorganic functions.
Teleosaur (n.) Any one of several species of fossil suarians belonging to Teleosaurus and allied genera. These reptiles are related to the crocodiles, but have biconcave vertebrae.
Teleosaurus (n.) A genus of extinct crocodilian reptiles of the Jurassic period, having a long and slender snout.
Teleost (n.) One of the Teleosti. Also used adjectively.
Teleostean (a.) Of or pertaining to the teleosts.
Teleostean (n.) A teleostean fish.
Teleostei (n. pl.) A subclass of fishes including all the ordinary bony fishes as distinguished from the ganoids.
Teleostomi (n. pl.) An extensive division of fishes including the ordinary fishes (Teleostei) and the ganoids.
Teleozoic (a.) Having tissued composed of cells.
Teleozoon (n.) A metazoan.
Telepathy (n.) The sympathetic affection of one mind by the thoughts, feelings, or emotions of another at a distance, without communication through the ordinary channels of sensation.
Telepheme (n.) A message by a telephone.
Telephone (n.) An instrument for reproducing sounds, especially articulate speech, at a distance.
Telephone (v. t.) To convey or announce by telephone.
Telephonic (a.) Conveying sound to a great distance.
Telephonic (a.) Of or pertaining to the telephone; by the telephone.
Telephonically (adv.) By telephonic means or processes; by the use of the telephone.
Telephony (n.) The art or process of reproducing sounds at a distance, as with the telephone.
Telepolariscope (n.) A polariscope arranged to be attached to a telescope.
Telerythin (n.) A red crystalline compound related to, or produced from, erythrin. So called because regarded as the end of the series of erythrin compounds.
Telescope (n.) An optical instrument used in viewing distant objects, as the heavenly bodies.
Telescoped (imp. & p. p.) of Telescope
Telescoping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Telescope
Telescope (a.) To slide or pass one within another, after the manner of the sections of a small telescope or spyglass; to come into collision, as railway cars, in such a manner that one runs into another.
Telescope (v. t.) To cause to come into collision, so as to telescope.
Telescopic (a.) Alt. of Telescopical
Telescopical (a.) Of or pertaining to a telescope; performed by a telescope.
Telescopical (a.) Seen or discoverable only by a telescope; as, telescopic stars.
Telescopical (a.) Able to discern objects at a distance; farseeing; far-reaching; as, a telescopic eye; telescopic vision.
Telescopical (a.) Having the power of extension by joints sliding one within another, like the tube of a small telescope or a spyglass; especially (Mach.), constructed of concentric tubes, either stationary, as in the telescopic boiler, or movable, as in the telescopic chimney of a war vessel, which may be put out of sight by being lowered endwise.
Telescopically (adv.) In a telescopical manner; by or with the telescope.
Telescopist (n.) One who uses a telescope.
Telescopy (n.) The art or practice of using or making telescopes.
Telesm (n.) A kind of amulet or magical charm.
Telesmatic (a.) Alt. of Telesmatical
Telesmatical (a.) Of or pertaining to telesms; magical.
Telespectroscope (n.) A spectroscope arranged to be attached to a telescope for observation of distant objects, as the sun or stars.
Telestereoscope (n.) A stereoscope adapted to view distant natural objects or landscapes; a telescopic stereoscope.
Telestic (a.) Tending or relating to a purpose or an end.
Telestich (n.) A poem in which the final letters of the lines, taken consequently, make a name. Cf. Acrostic.
Telethermometer (n.) An apparatus for determining the temperature of a distant point, as by a thermoelectric circuit or otherwise.
Teleutospore (n.) The thick-celled winter or resting spore of the rusts (order Uredinales), produced in late summer. See Illust. of Uredospore.
Telic (a.) Denoting the final end or purpose, as distinguished from ecbatic. See Ecbatic.
Told (imp. & p. p.) of Tell
Telling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tell
Tell (v. t.) To mention one by one, or piece by piece; to recount; to enumerate; to reckon; to number; to count; as, to tell money.
Tell (v. t.) To utter or recite in detail; to give an account of; to narrate.
Tell (v. t.) To make known; to publish; to disclose; to divulge.
Tell (v. t.) To give instruction to; to make report to; to acquaint; to teach; to inform.
Tell (v. t.) To order; to request; to command.
Tell (v. t.) To discern so as to report; to ascertain by observing; to find out; to discover; as, I can not tell where one color ends and the other begins.
Tell (v. t.) To make account of; to regard; to reckon; to value; to estimate.
Tell (v. i.) To give an account; to make report.
Tell (v. i.) To take effect; to produce a marked effect; as, every shot tells; every expression tells.
Tell (n.) That which is told; tale; account.
Tell (n.) A hill or mound.
Tellable (a.) Capable of being told.
Tellen (n.) Any species of Tellina.
Teller (n.) One who tells, relates, or communicates; an informer, narrator, or describer.
Teller (n.) One of four officers of the English Exchequer, formerly appointed to receive moneys due to the king and to pay moneys payable by the king.
Teller (n.) An officer of a bank who receives and counts over money paid in, and pays money out on checks.
Teller (n.) One who is appointed to count the votes given in a legislative body, public meeting, assembly, etc.
Tellership (n.) The office or employment of a teller.
Tellina (n.) A genus of marine bivalve mollusks having thin, delicate, and often handsomely colored shells.
Telling (a.) Operating with great effect; effective; as, a telling speech.
Telltale (a.) Telling tales; babbling.
Telltale (n.) One who officiously communicates information of the private concerns of others; one who tells that which prudence should suppress.
Telltale (n.) A movable piece of ivory, lead, or other material, connected with the bellows of an organ, that gives notice, by its position, when the wind is exhausted.
Telltale (n.) A mechanical attachment to the steering wheel, which, in the absence of a tiller, shows the position of the helm.
Telltale (n.) A compass in the cabin of a vessel, usually placed where the captain can see it at all hours, and thus inform himself of the vessel's course.
Telltale (n.) A machine or contrivance for indicating or recording something, particularly for keeping a check upon employees, as factory hands, watchmen, drivers, check takers, and the like, by revealing to their employers what they have done or omitted.
Telltale (n.) The tattler. See Tattler.
Tellural (a.) Of or pertaining to the earth.
Tellurate (n.) A salt of telluric acid.
Telluret (n.) A telluride.
Tellureted (n.) Combined or impregnated with tellurium; tellurized.
Tellurhydric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, hydrogen telluride, which is regarded as an acid, especially when in solution.
Tellurian (a.) Of or pertaining to the earth.
Tellurian (n.) A dweller on the earth.
Tellurian (n.) An instrument for showing the operation of the causes which produce the succession of day and night, and the changes of the seasons.
Telluric (a.) Of or pertaining to the earth; proceeding from the earth.
Telluric (a.) Of or pertaining to tellurium; derived from, or resembling, tellurium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as contrasted with tellurous compounds; as, telluric acid, which is analogous to sulphuric acid.
Telluride (n.) A compound of tellurium with a more positive element or radical; -- formerly called telluret.
Tellurism (n.) An hypothesis of animal magnetism propounded by Dr. Keiser, in Germany, in which the phenomena are ascribed to the agency of a telluric spirit or influence.
Tellurite (n.) A salt of tellurous acid.
Tellurite (n.) Oxide of tellurium. It occurs sparingly in tufts of white or yellowish crystals.
Tellurium (n.) A rare nonmetallic element, analogous to sulphur and selenium, occasionally found native as a substance of a silver-white metallic luster, but usually combined with metals, as with gold and silver in the mineral sylvanite, with mercury in Coloradoite, etc. Symbol Te. Atomic weight 125.2.
Tellurize (v. t.) To impregnate with, or to subject to the action of, tellurium; -- chiefly used adjectively in the past participle; as, tellurized ores.
Tellurous (a.) Of or pertaining to tellurium; derived from, or containing, tellurium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with telluric compounds; as, tellurous acid, which is analogous to sulphurous acid.
Telodynamic (a.) Relating to a system for transmitting power to a distance by means of swiftly moving ropes or cables driving grooved pulleys of large diameter.
Teloogoo (n.) See Telugu.
Telotrochae (pl. ) of Telotrocha
Telotrocha (n.) An annelid larva having telotrochal bands of cilia.
Telotrochal (a.) Alt. of Telotrochous
Telotrochous (a.) Having both a preoral and a posterior band of cilla; -- applied to the larvae of certain annelids.
Telotype (n.) An electric telegraph which prints the messages in letters and not in signs.
Telpher (n.) A contrivance for the conveyance of vehicles or loads by means of electricity.
Telpherage (n.) The conveyance of vehicles or loads by means of electricity.
Telsons (pl. ) of Telson
Telson (n.) The terminal joint or movable piece at the end of the abdomen of Crustacea and other articulates. See Thoracostraca.
Telugu (n.) A Darvidian language spoken in the northern parts of the Madras presidency. In extent of use it is the next language after Hindustani (in its various forms) and Bengali.
Telugu (n.) One of the people speaking the Telugu language.
Telugu (a.) Of or pertaining to the Telugu language, or the Telugus.
Temerarious (a.) Unreasonably adventurous; despising danger; rash; headstrong; audacious; reckless; heedless.
Temeration (n.) Temerity.
Temerity (n.) Unreasonable contempt of danger; extreme venturesomeness; rashness; as, the temerity of a commander in war.
Temerous (a.) Temerarious.
Tempean (a.) Of or pertaining to Temple, a valley in Thessaly, celebrated by Greek poets on account of its beautiful scenery; resembling Temple; hence, beautiful; delightful; charming.
Tempered (imp. & p. p.) of Temper
Tempering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Temper
Temper (v. t.) To mingle in due proportion; to prepare by combining; to modify, as by adding some new element; to qualify, as by an ingredient; hence, to soften; to mollify; to assuage; to soothe; to calm.
Temper (v. t.) To fit together; to adjust; to accomodate.
Temper (v. t.) To bring to a proper degree of hardness; as, to temper iron or steel.
Temper (v. t.) To govern; to manage.
Temper (v. t.) To moisten to a proper consistency and stir thoroughly, as clay for making brick, loam for molding, etc.
Temper (v. t.) To adjust, as the mathematical scale to the actual scale, or to that in actual use.
Temper (n.) The state of any compound substance which results from the mixture of various ingredients; due mixture of different qualities; just combination; as, the temper of mortar.
Temper (n.) Constitution of body; temperament; in old writers, the mixture or relative proportion of the four humors, blood, choler, phlegm, and melancholy.
Temper (n.) Disposition of mind; the constitution of the mind, particularly with regard to the passions and affections; as, a calm temper; a hasty temper; a fretful temper.
Temper (n.) Calmness of mind; moderation; equanimity; composure; as, to keep one's temper.
Temper (n.) Heat of mind or passion; irritation; proneness to anger; -- in a reproachful sense.
Temper (n.) The state of a metal or other substance, especially as to its hardness, produced by some process of heating or cooling; as, the temper of iron or steel.
Temper (n.) Middle state or course; mean; medium.
Temper (n.) Milk of lime, or other substance, employed in the process formerly used to clarify sugar.
Temper (v. i.) To accord; to agree; to act and think in conformity.
Temper (v. i.) To have or get a proper or desired state or quality; to grow soft and pliable.
Tempera (n.) A mode or process of painting; distemper.
Temperable (a.) Capable of being tempered.
Temperament (v. t.) Internal constitution; state with respect to the relative proportion of different qualities, or constituent parts.
Temperament (v. t.) Due mixture of qualities; a condition brought about by mutual compromises or concessions.
Temperament (v. t.) The act of tempering or modifying; adjustment, as of clashing rules, interests, passions, or the like; also, the means by which such adjustment is effected.
Temperament (v. t.) Condition with regard to heat or cold; temperature.
Temperament (v. t.) A system of compromises in the tuning of organs, pianofortes, and the like, whereby the tones generated with the vibrations of a ground tone are mutually modified and in part canceled, until their number reduced to the actual practicable scale of twelve tones to the octave. This scale, although in so far artificial, is yet closely suggestive of its origin in nature, and this system of tuning, although not mathematically true, yet satisfies the ear, while it has the convenience that the same twelve fixed tones answer for every key or scale, C/ becoming identical with D/, and so on.
Temperament (v. t.) The peculiar physical and mental character of an individual, in olden times erroneously supposed to be due to individual variation in the relations and proportions of the constituent parts of the body, especially of the fluids, as the bile, blood, lymph, etc. Hence the phrases, bilious or choleric temperament, sanguine temperament, etc., implying a predominance of one of these fluids and a corresponding influence on the temperament.
Temperamental (a.) Of or pertaining to temperament; constitutional.
Temperance (v. t.) Habitual moderation in regard to the indulgence of the natural appetites and passions; restrained or moderate indulgence; moderation; as, temperance in eating and drinking; temperance in the indulgence of joy or mirth; specifically, moderation, and sometimes abstinence, in respect to using intoxicating liquors.
Temperance (v. t.) Moderation of passion; patience; calmness; sedateness.
Temperance (v. t.) State with regard to heat or cold; temperature.
Temperancy (n.) Temperance.
Temperate (v. t.) Moderate; not excessive; as, temperate heat; a temperate climate.
Temperate (v. t.) Not marked with passion; not violent; cool; calm; as, temperate language.
Temperate (v. t.) Moderate in the indulgence of the natural appetites or passions; as, temperate in eating and drinking.
Temperate (v. t.) Proceeding from temperance.
Temperate (v. t.) To render temperate; to moderate; to soften; to temper.
Temperately (adv.) In a temperate manner.
Temperateness (n.) The quality or state of being temperate; moderateness; temperance.
Temperative (a.) Having power to temper.
Temperature (n.) Constitution; state; degree of any quality.
Temperature (n.) Freedom from passion; moderation.
Temperature (n.) Condition with respect to heat or cold, especially as indicated by the sensation produced, or by the thermometer or pyrometer; degree of heat or cold; as, the temperature of the air; high temperature; low temperature; temperature of freezing or of boiling.
Temperature (n.) Mixture; compound.
Tempered (a.) Brought to a proper temper; as, tempered steel; having (such) a temper; -- chiefly used in composition; as, a good-tempered or bad-tempered man; a well-tempered sword.
Temperer (n.) One who, or that which, tempers; specifically, a machine in which lime, cement, stone, etc., are mixed with water.
Tempering (n.) The process of giving the requisite degree of hardness or softness to a substance, as iron and steel; especially, the process of giving to steel the degree of hardness required for various purposes, consisting usually in first plunging the article, when heated to redness, in cold water or other liquid, to give an excess of hardness, and then reheating it gradually until the hardness is reduced or drawn down to the degree required, as indicated by the color produced on a polished portion, or by the burning of oil.
Tempest (n.) An extensive current of wind, rushing with great velocity and violence, and commonly attended with rain, hail, or snow; a furious storm.
Tempest (n.) Fig.: Any violent tumult or commotion; as, a political tempest; a tempest of war, or of the passions.
Tempest (n.) A fashionable assembly; a drum. See the Note under Drum, n., 4.
Tempest (v. t.) To disturb as by a tempest.
Tempest (v. i.) To storm.
Tempestive (a.) Seasonable; timely; as, tempestive showers.
Tempestivily (n.) The quality, or state, of being tempestive; seasonableness.
Tempestuous (a.) Of or pertaining to a tempest; involving or resembling a tempest; turbulent; violent; stormy; as, tempestuous weather; a tempestuous night; a tempestuous debate.
Templar (n.) One of a religious and military order first established at Jerusalem, in the early part of the 12th century, for the protection of pilgrims and of the Holy Sepulcher. These Knights Templars, or Knights of the Temple, were so named because they occupied an apartment of the palace of Bladwin II. in Jerusalem, near the Temple.
Templar (n.) A student of law, so called from having apartments in the Temple at London, the original buildings having belonged to the Knights Templars. See Inner Temple, and Middle Temple, under Temple.
Templar (n.) One belonged to a certain order or degree among the Freemasons, called Knights Templars. Also, one of an order among temperance men, styled Good Templars.
Templar (a.) Of or pertaining to a temple.
Template (n.) Same as Templet.
Temple (n.) A contrivence used in a loom for keeping the web stretched transversely.
Temple (n.) The space, on either side of the head, back of the eye and forehead, above the zygomatic arch and in front of the ear.
Temple (n.) One of the side bars of a pair of spectacles, jointed to the bows, and passing one on either side of the head to hold the spectacles in place.
Temple (n.) A place or edifice dedicated to the worship of some deity; as, the temple of Jupiter at Athens, or of Juggernaut in India.
Temple (n.) The edifice erected at Jerusalem for the worship of Jehovah.
Temple (n.) Hence, among Christians, an edifice erected as a place of public worship; a church.
Temple (n.) Fig.: Any place in which the divine presence specially resides.
Temple (v. t.) To build a temple for; to appropriate a temple to; as, to temple a god.
Templed (a.) Supplied with a temple or temples, or with churches; inclosed in a temple.
Templet (n.) A gauge, pattern, or mold, commonly a thin plate or board, used as a guide to the form of the work to be executed; as, a mason's or a wheelwright's templet.
Templet (n.) A short piece of timber, iron, or stone, placed in a wall under a girder or other beam, to distribute the weight or pressure.
Tempo (n.) The rate or degree of movement in time.
Temporal (a.) Of or pertaining to the temple or temples; as, the temporal bone; a temporal artery.
Temporal (n.) Of or pertaining to time, that is, to the present life, or this world; secular, as distinguished from sacred or eternal.
Temporal (n.) Civil or political, as distinguished from ecclesiastical; as, temporal power; temporal courts.
Temporal (n.) Anything temporal or secular; a temporality; -- used chiefly in the plural.
Temporalities (pl. ) of Temporality
Temporality (n.) The state or quality of being temporary; -- opposed to perpetuity.
Temporality (n.) The laity; temporality.
Temporality (n.) That which pertains to temporal welfare; material interests; especially, the revenue of an ecclesiastic proceeding from lands, tenements, or lay fees, tithes, and the like; -- chiefly used in the plural.
Temporally (adv.) In a temporal manner; secularly.
Temporalness (n.) Worldliness.
Temporalty (n.) The laity; secular people.
Temporalty (n.) A secular possession; a temporality.
Temporaneous (a.) Temporarity.
Temporarily (adv.) In a temporary manner; for a time.
Temporariness (n.) The quality or state of being temporary; -- opposed to perpetuity.
Temporary (a.) Lasting for a time only; existing or continuing for a limited time; not permanent; as, the patient has obtained temporary relief.
Temporist (n.) A temporizer.
Temporization (n.) The act of temporizing.
Temporized (imp. & p. p.) of Temporize
Temporizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Temporize
Temporize (v. t.) To comply with the time or occasion; to humor, or yield to, the current of opinion or circumstances; also, to trim, as between two parties.
Temporize (v. t.) To delay; to procrastinate.
Temporize (v. t.) To comply; to agree.
Temporizer (n.) One who temporizes; one who yields to the time, or complies with the prevailing opinions, fashions, or occasions; a trimmer.
Temporizingly (adv.) In a temporizing or yielding manner.
Temporo- () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the temple, or temporal bone; as, temporofacial.
Temporo-auricular (a.) Of or pertaining to both the temple and the ear; as, the temporo-auricular nerve.
Temporofacial (a.) Of or pertaining to both the temple and the face.
Temporomalar (a.) Of or pertaining to both the temple and the region of the malar bone; as, the temporomalar nerve.
Temporomaxillary (a.) Of or pertaining to both the temple or the temporal bone and the maxilla.
Temps (n.) Time.
Tempse (n.) See Temse.
Tempted (imp. & p. p.) of Tempt
Tempting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tempt
Tempt (v. t.) To put to trial; to prove; to test; to try.
Tempt (v. t.) To lead, or endeavor to lead, into evil; to entice to what is wrong; to seduce.
Tempt (v. t.) To endeavor to persuade; to induce; to invite; to incite; to provoke; to instigate.
Tempt (v. t.) To endeavor to accomplish or reach; to attempt.
Temptability (n.) The quality or state of being temptable; lability to temptation.
Temptable (a.) Capable of being tempted; liable to be tempted.
Temptation (n.) The act of tempting, or enticing to evil; seduction.
Temptation (n.) The state of being tempted, or enticed to evil.
Temptation (n.) That which tempts; an inducement; an allurement, especially to something evil.
Temptationless (a.) Having no temptation or motive; as, a temptationless sin.
Temptatious (a.) Tempting.
Tempter (n.) One who tempts or entices; especially, Satan, or the Devil, regarded as the great enticer to evil.
Tempting (a.) Adapted to entice or allure; attractive; alluring; seductive; enticing; as, tempting pleasures.
Temptress (n.) A woman who entices.
Temse (n.) A sieve.
Temulence (n.) Alt. of Temulency
Temulency (n.) Intoxication; inebriation; drunkenness.
Temulent (a.) Intoxicated; drunken.
Temulentive (a.) Somewhat temulent; addicted to drink.
Ten (a.) One more than nine; twice five.
Ten (n.) The number greater by one than nine; the sum of five and five; ten units of objects.
Ten (n.) A symbol representing ten units, as 10, x, or X.
Tenability (n.) The quality or state of being tenable; tenableness.
Tenable (a.) Capable of being held, naintained, or defended, as against an assailant or objector, or againts attempts to take or process; as, a tenable fortress, a tenable argument.
Tenableness (n.) Same as Tenability.
Tenace (n.) The holding by the fourth hand of the best and third best cards of a suit led; also, sometimes, the combination of best with third best card of a suit in any hand.
Tenacious (a.) Holding fast, or inclined to hold fast; inclined to retain what is in possession; as, men tenacious of their just rights.
Tenacious (a.) Apt to retain; retentive; as, a tenacious memory.
Tenacious (a.) Having parts apt to adhere to each other; cohesive; tough; as, steel is a tenacious metal; tar is more tenacious than oil.
Tenacious (a.) Apt to adhere to another substance; glutinous; viscous; sticking; adhesive.
Tenacious (a.) Niggardly; closefisted; miserly.
Tenacious (a.) Holding stoutly to one's opinion or purpose; obstinate; stubborn.
Tenacity (n.) The quality or state of being tenacious; as, tenacity, or retentiveness, of memory; tenacity, or persistency, of purpose.
Tenacity (n.) That quality of bodies which keeps them from parting without considerable force; cohesiveness; the effect of attraction; -- as distinguished from brittleness, fragility, mobility, etc.
Tenacity (n.) That quality of bodies which makes them adhere to other bodies; adhesiveness; viscosity.
Tenacity (n.) The greatest longitudinal stress a substance can bear without tearing asunder, -- usually expressed with reference to a unit area of the cross section of the substance, as the number of pounds per square inch, or kilograms per square centimeter, necessary to produce rupture.
Tenacula (pl. ) of Tenaculum
Tenaculums (pl. ) of Tenaculum
Tenaculum (n.) An instrument consisting of a fine, sharp hook attached to a handle, and used mainly for taking up arteries, and the like.
Tenacy (n.) Tenaciousness; obstinacy.
Tenaille (n.) An outwork in the main ditch, in front of the curtain, between two bastions. See Illust. of Ravelin.
Tenaillon (n.) A work constructed on each side of the ravelins, to increase their strength, procure additional ground beyond the ditch, or cover the shoulders of the bastions.
Tenacies (pl. ) of Tenancy
Tenancy (n.) A holding, or a mode of holding, an estate; tenure; the temporary possession of what belongs to another.
Tenancy (n.) A house for habitation, or place to live in, held of another.
Tenant (n.) One who holds or possesses lands, or other real estate, by any kind of right, whether in fee simple, in common, in severalty, for life, for years, or at will; also, one who has the occupation or temporary possession of lands or tenements the title of which is in another; -- correlative to landlord. See Citation from Blackstone, under Tenement, 2.
Tenant (n.) One who has possession of any place; a dweller; an occupant.
Tenanted (imp. & p. p.) of Tenant
Tenanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tenant
Tenant (v. t.) To hold, occupy, or possess as a tenant.
Tenantable (a.) Fit to be rented; in a condition suitable for a tenant.
Tenantless (a.) Having no tenants; unoccupied; as, a tenantless mansion.
Tenantry (n.) The body of tenants; as, the tenantry of a manor or a kingdom.
Tenantry (n.) Tenancy.
Tenant saw () See Tenon saw, under Tenon.
Tench (n.) A European fresh-water fish (Tinca tinca, or T. vulgaris) allied to the carp. It is noted for its tenacity of life.
Tend (v. t.) To make a tender of; to offer or tender.
Tended (imp. & p. p.) of Tend
Tending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tend
Tend (v. t.) To accompany as an assistant or protector; to care for the wants of; to look after; to watch; to guard; as, shepherds tend their flocks.
Tend (v. t.) To be attentive to; to note carefully; to attend to.
Tend (v. i.) To wait, as attendants or servants; to serve; to attend; -- with on or upon.
Tend (v. i.) To await; to expect.
Tend (a.) To move in a certain direction; -- usually with to or towards.
Tend (a.) To be directed, as to any end, object, or purpose; to aim; to have or give a leaning; to exert activity or influence; to serve as a means; to contribute; as, our petitions, if granted, might tend to our destruction.
Tendance (n.) The act of attending or waiting; attendance.
Tendance (n.) Persons in attendance; attendants.
Tendence (n.) Tendency.
Tendencies (pl. ) of Tendency
Tendency (n.) Direction or course toward any place, object, effect, or result; drift; causal or efficient influence to bring about an effect or result.
Tender (n.) One who tends; one who takes care of any person or thing; a nurse.
Tender (n.) A vessel employed to attend other vessels, to supply them with provisions and other stores, to convey intelligence, or the like.
Tender (n.) A car attached to a locomotive, for carrying a supply of fuel and water.
Tendered (imp. & p. p.) of Tender
Tendering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tender
Tender (v. t.) To offer in payment or satisfaction of a demand, in order to save a penalty or forfeiture; as, to tender the amount of rent or debt.
Tender (v. t.) To offer in words; to present for acceptance.
Tender (n.) An offer, either of money to pay a debt, or of service to be performed, in order to save a penalty or forfeiture, which would be incurred by nonpayment or nonperformance; as, the tender of rent due, or of the amount of a note, with interest.
Tender (n.) Any offer or proposal made for acceptance; as, a tender of a loan, of service, or of friendship; a tender of a bid for a contract.
Tender (n.) The thing offered; especially, money offered in payment of an obligation.
Tender (superl.) Easily impressed, broken, bruised, or injured; not firm or hard; delicate; as, tender plants; tender flesh; tender fruit.
Tender (superl.) Sensible to impression and pain; easily pained.
Tender (superl.) Physically weak; not hardly or able to endure hardship; immature; effeminate.
Tender (superl.) Susceptible of the softer passions, as love, compassion, kindness; compassionate; pitiful; anxious for another's good; easily excited to pity, forgiveness, or favor; sympathetic.
Tender (superl.) Exciting kind concern; dear; precious.
Tender (superl.) Careful to save inviolate, or not to injure; -- with of.
Tender (superl.) Unwilling to cause pain; gentle; mild.
Tender (superl.) Adapted to excite feeling or sympathy; expressive of the softer passions; pathetic; as, tender expressions; tender expostulations; a tender strain.
Tender (superl.) Apt to give pain; causing grief or pain; delicate; as, a tender subject.
Tender (superl.) Heeling over too easily when under sail; -- said of a vessel.
Tender (n.) Regard; care; kind concern.
Tender (v. t.) To have a care of; to be tender toward; hence, to regard; to esteem; to value.
Tenderfoot (n.) A delicate person; one not inured to the hardship and rudeness of pioneer life.
Tender-hearted (a.) Having great sensibility; susceptible of impressions or influence; affectionate; pitying; sensitive.
Tender-hefted (a.) Having great tenderness; easily moved.
Tenderling (n.) One made tender by too much kindness; a fondling.
Tenderling (n.) One of the first antlers of a deer.
Tenderloin (n.) A strip of tender flesh on either side of the vertebral column under the short ribs, in the hind quarter of beef and pork. It consists of the psoas muscles.
Tenderly (adv.) In a tender manner; with tenderness; mildly; gently; softly; in a manner not to injure or give pain; with pity or affection; kindly.
Tenderness (n.) The quality or state of being tender (in any sense of the adjective).
Tendinous (a.) Pertaining to a tendon; of the nature of tendon.
Tendinous (a.) Full of tendons; sinewy; as, nervous and tendinous parts of the body.
Tendment (n.) Attendance; care.
Tendon (n.) A tough insensible cord, bundle, or band of fibrous connective tissue uniting a muscle with some other part; a sinew.
Tendonous (a.) Tendinous.
Tendosynovitis (n.) See Tenosynovitis.
Tendrac (n.) Any one of several species of small insectivores of the family Centetidae, belonging to Ericulus, Echinope, and related genera, native of Madagascar. They are more or less spinose and resemble the hedgehog in habits. The rice tendrac (Oryzorictes hora) is very injurious to rice crops. Some of the species are called also tenrec.
Tendril (a.) A slender, leafless portion of a plant by which it becomes attached to a supporting body, after which the tendril usually contracts by coiling spirally.
Tendril (a.) Clasping; climbing as a tendril.
Tendriled (a.) Alt. of Tendrilled
Tendrilled (a.) Furnished with tendrils, or with such or so many, tendrils.
Tendron (n.) A tendril.
Tendry (n.) A tender; an offer.
Tene (n. & v.) See 1st and 2d Teen.
Tenebrae (n.) The matins and lauds for the last three days of Holy Week, commemorating the sufferings and death of Christ, -- usually sung on the afternoon or evening of Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, instead of on the following days.
Tenebricose (a.) Tenebrous; dark; gloomy.
Tenebrific (a.) Rendering dark or gloomy; tenebrous; gloomy.
Tenebrificous (a.) Tenebrific.
Tenebrious (a.) Tenebrous.
Tenebrose (a.) Characterized by darkness or gloom; tenebrous.
Tenebrosity (n.) The quality or state of being tenebrous; tenebrousness.
Tenebrous (a.) Dark; gloomy; dusky; tenebrious.
Tenement (n.) That which is held of another by service; property which one holds of a lord or proprietor in consideration of some military or pecuniary service; fief; fee.
Tenement (n.) Any species of permanent property that may be held, so as to create a tenancy, as lands, houses, rents, commons, an office, an advowson, a franchise, a right of common, a peerage, and the like; -- called also free / frank tenements.
Tenement (n.) A dwelling house; a building for a habitation; also, an apartment, or suite of rooms, in a building, used by one family; often, a house erected to be rented.
Tenement (n.) Fig.: Dwelling; abode; habitation.
Tenemental (a.) Of or pertaining to a tenement; capable of being held by tenants.
Tenementary (a.) Capable of being leased; held by tenants.
Tenent (n.) A tenet.
Teneral (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a condition assumed by the imago of certain Neuroptera, after exclusion from the pupa. In this state the insect is soft, and has not fully attained its mature coloring.
Teneriffe (n.) A white wine resembling Madeira in taste, but more tart, produced in Teneriffe, one of the Canary Islands; -- called also Vidonia.
Tenerity (a.) Tenderness.
Tenesmic (a.) Of or pertaining to tenesmus; characterized by tenesmus.
Tenesmus (n.) An urgent and distressing sensation, as if a discharge from the intestines must take place, although none can be effected; -- always referred to the lower extremity of the rectum.
Tenet (n.) Any opinion, principle, dogma, belief, or doctrine, which a person holds or maintains as true; as, the tenets of Plato or of Cicero.
Tenfold (a. & adv.) In tens; consisting of ten in one; ten times repeated.
Tenia (n.) See Taenia.
Tenioid (a.) See Taenoid.
Tennantite (n.) A blackish lead-gray mineral, closely related to tetrahedrite. It is essentially a sulphide of arsenic and copper.
Tenne (n.) A tincture, rarely employed, which is considered as an orange color or bright brown. It is represented by diagonal lines from sinister to dexter, crossed by vertical lines.
Tennis (n.) A play in which a ball is driven to and fro, or kept in motion by striking it with a racket or with the open hand.
Tennis (v. t.) To drive backward and forward, as a ball in playing tennis.
Tennu (n.) The tapir.
Ten-o'clock (n.) A plant, the star-of-Bethlehem. See under Star.
Tenon (n.) A projecting member left by cutting away the wood around it, and made to insert into a mortise, and in this way secure together the parts of a frame; especially, such a member when it passes entirely through the thickness of the piece in which the mortise is cut, and shows on the other side. Cf. Tooth, Tusk.
Tenon (v. t.) To cut or fit for insertion into a mortise, as the end of a piece of timber.
Tenonian (a.) Discovered or described by M. Tenon, a French anatomist.
Tenor (n.) A state of holding on in a continuous course; manner of continuity; constant mode; general tendency; course; career.
Tenor (n.) That course of thought which holds on through a discourse; the general drift or course of thought; purport; intent; meaning; understanding.
Tenor (n.) Stamp; character; nature.
Tenor (n.) An exact copy of a writing, set forth in the words and figures of it. It differs from purport, which is only the substance or general import of the instrument.
Tenor (n.) The higher of the two kinds of voices usually belonging to adult males; hence, the part in the harmony adapted to this voice; the second of the four parts in the scale of sounds, reckoning from the base, and originally the air, to which the other parts were auxillary.
Tenor (n.) A person who sings the tenor, or the instrument that play it.
Tenosynovitis (n.) Inflammation of the synovial sheath enveloping a tendon.
Tenotome (n.) A slender knife for use in the operation of tenotomy.
Tenotomy (n.) The division of a tendon, or the act of dividing a tendon.
Tenpenny (a.) Valued or sold at ten pence; as, a tenpenny cake. See 2d Penny, n.
Tenpenny (a.) Denoting a size of nails. See 1st Penny.
Tenpins (n.) A game resembling ninepins, but played with ten pins. See Ninepins.
Ten-pounder (n.) A large oceanic fish (Elops saurus) found in the tropical parts of all the oceans. It is used chiefly for bait.
Tenrec (n.) A small insectivore (Centetes ecaudatus), native of Madagascar, but introduced also into the islands of Bourbon and Mauritius; -- called also tanrec. The name is applied to other allied genera. See Tendrac.
Tense (n.) One of the forms which a verb takes by inflection or by adding auxiliary words, so as to indicate the time of the action or event signified; the modification which verbs undergo for the indication of time.
Tense (a.) Stretched tightly; strained to stiffness; rigid; not lax; as, a tense fiber.
Tensibility (n.) The quality or state of being tensible; tensility.
Tensible (a.) Capable of being extended or drawn out; ductile; tensible.
Tensile (a.) Of or pertaining to extension; as, tensile strength.
Tensile (a.) Capable of extension; ductile; tensible.
Tensiled (a.) Made tensile.
Tensility (n.) The quality or state of being tensile, or capable of extension; tensibility; as, the tensility of the muscles.
Tension (a.) The act of stretching or straining; the state of being stretched or strained to stiffness; the state of being bent strained; as, the tension of the muscles, tension of the larynx.
Tension (a.) Fig.: Extreme strain of mind or excitement of feeling; intense effort.
Tension (a.) The degree of stretching to which a wire, cord, piece of timber, or the like, is strained by drawing it in the direction of its length; strain.
Tension (a.) The force by which a part is pulled when forming part of any system in equilibrium or in motion; as, the tension of a srting supporting a weight equals that weight.
Tension (a.) A device for checking the delivery of the thread in a sewing machine, so as to give the stitch the required degree of tightness.
Tension (a.) Expansive force; the force with which the particles of a body, as a gas, tend to recede from each other and occupy a larger space; elastic force; elasticity; as, the tension of vapor; the tension of air.
Tension (a.) The quality in consequence of which an electric charge tends to discharge itself, as into the air by a spark, or to pass from a body of greater to one of less electrical potential. It varies as the quantity of electricity upon a given area.
Tensioned (a.) Extended or drawn out; subjected to tension.
Tensity (n.) The quality or state of being tense, or strained to stiffness; tension; tenseness.
Tensive (a.) Giving the sensation of tension, stiffness, or contraction.
Tensor (n.) A muscle that stretches a part, or renders it tense.
Tensor (n.) The ratio of one vector to another in length, no regard being had to the direction of the two vectors; -- so called because considered as a stretching factor in changing one vector into another. See Versor.
Ten-strike (n.) A knocking down of all ten pins at one delivery of the ball.
Ten-strike (n.) Any quick, decisive stroke or act.
Tensure (n.) Tension.
Tent (n.) A kind of wine of a deep red color, chiefly from Galicia or Malaga in Spain; -- called also tent wine, and tinta.
Tent (n.) Attention; regard, care.
Tent (n.) Intention; design.
Tent (v. t.) To attend to; to heed; hence, to guard; to hinder.
Tent (v. t.) To probe or to search with a tent; to keep open with a tent; as, to tent a wound. Used also figuratively.
Tent (n.) A roll of lint or linen, or a conical or cylindrical piece of sponge or other absorbent, used chiefly to dilate a natural canal, to keep open the orifice of a wound, or to absorb discharges.
Tent (n.) A probe for searching a wound.
Tent (n.) A pavilion or portable lodge consisting of skins, canvas, or some strong cloth, stretched and sustained by poles, -- used for sheltering persons from the weather, especially soldiers in camp.
Tent (n.) The representation of a tent used as a bearing.
Tented (imp. & p. p.) of Tent
Tenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tent
Tent (v. i.) To lodge as a tent; to tabernacle.
Tentacle (n.) A more or less elongated process or organ, simple or branched, proceeding from the head or cephalic region of invertebrate animals, being either an organ of sense, prehension, or motion.
Tentacled (a.) Having tentacles.
Tentacular (a.) Of or pertaining to a tentacle or tentacles.
Tentaculata (n. pl.) A division of Ctenophora including those which have two long tentacles.
Tentaculate (a.) Alt. of Tentaculated
Tentaculated (a.) Having tentacles, or organs like tentacles; tentacled.
Tentaculifera (n. pl.) Same as Suctoria, 1.
Tentaculiferous (a.) Producing or bearing tentacles.
Tentaculiform (a.) Shaped like a tentacle.
Tentaculite (n.) Any one of numerous species of small, conical fossil shells found in Paleozoic rocks. They are supposed to be pteropods.
Tentaculocyst (n.) One of the auditory organs of certain medusae; -- called also auditory tentacle.
Tentacula (pl. ) of Tentaculum
Tentaculum (n.) A tentacle.
Tentaculum (n.) One of the stiff hairs situated about the mouth, or on the face, of many animals, and supposed to be tactile organs; a tactile hair.
Tentage (n.) A collection of tents; an encampment.
Tentation (n.) Trial; temptation.
Tentation (n.) A mode of adjusting or operating by repeated trials or experiments.
Tentative (a.) Of or pertaining to a trial or trials; essaying; experimental.
Tentative (n.) An essay; a trial; an experiment.
Tented (a.) Covered with tents.
Tenter (n.) One who takes care of, or tends, machines in a factory; a kind of assistant foreman.
Tenter (n.) A kind of governor.
Tenter (n.) A machine or frame for stretching cloth by means of hooks, called tenter-hooks, so that it may dry even and square.
Tentered (imp. & p. p.) of Tenter
Tentering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tenter
Tenter (v. i.) To admit extension.
Tenter (v. t.) To hang or stretch on, or as on, tenters.
Tentfuls (pl. ) of Tentful
Tentful (n.) As much, or as many, as a tent will hold.
Tenth (a.) Next in order after the ninth; coming after nine others.
Tenth (a.) Constituting or being one of ten equal parts into which anything is divided.
Tenth (n.) The next in order after the ninth; one coming after nine others.
Tenth (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by ten; one of ten equal parts into which anything is divided.
Tenth (n.) The tenth part of annual produce, income, increase, or the like; a tithe.
Tenth (n.) The interval between any tone and the tone represented on the tenth degree of the staff above it, as between one of the scale and three of the octave above; the octave of the third.
Tenth (n.) A temporary aid issuing out of personal property, and granted to the king by Parliament; formerly, the real tenth part of all the movables belonging to the subject.
Tenth (n.) The tenth part of the annual profit of every living in the kingdom, formerly paid to the pope, but afterward transferred to the crown. It now forms a part of the fund called Queen Anne's Bounty.
Tenthly (adv.) In a tenth manner.
Tenthmeter (n.) Alt. of Tenthmetre
Tenthmetre (n.) A unit for the measurement of many small lengths, such that 1010 of these units make one meter; the ten millionth part of a millimeter.
Tenthredinides (n. pl.) A group of Hymneoptera comprising the sawflies.
Tentif (a.) Attentive.
Tentifly (adv.) Attentively.
Tentiginous (a.) Stiff; stretched; strained.
Tentiginous (a.) Lustful, or pertaining to lust.
Tentmaker (n.) One whose occupation it is to make tents.
Tentorium (n.) A fold of the dura mater which separates the cerebellum from the cerebrum and often incloses a process or plate of the skull called the bony tentorium.
Tentory (n.) The awning or covering of a tent.
Tentwort (n.) A kind of small fern, the wall rue. See under Wall.
Tenuated (imp. & p. p.) of Tenuate
Tenuating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tenuate
Tenuate (v. t.) To make thin; to attenuate.
Tenuifolious (a.) Having thin or narrow leaves.
Tenuious (a.) Rare or subtile; tenuous; -- opposed to dense.
Tenuirosters (pl. ) of Tenuiroster
Tenuiroster (n.) One of the Tenuirostres.
Tenuirostral (a.) Thin-billed; -- applied to birds with a slender bill, as the humming birds.
Tenuirostres (n. pl.) An artificial group of passerine birds having slender bills, as the humming birds.
Tenues (pl. ) of Tenuis
Tenuis (n.) One of the three surd mutes /, /, /; -- so called in relation to their respective middle letters, or medials, /, /, /, and their aspirates, /, /, /. The term is also applied to the corresponding letters and articulate elements in other languages.
Tenuity (n.) The quality or state of being tenuous; thinness, applied to a broad substance; slenderness, applied to anything that is long; as, the tenuity of a leaf; the tenuity of a hair.
Tenuity (n.) Rarily; rareness; thinness, as of a fluid; as, the tenuity of the air; the tenuity of the blood.
Tenuity (n.) Poverty; indigence.
Tenuity (n.) Refinement; delicacy.
Tenuous (a.) Thin; slender; small; minute.
Tenuous (a.) Rare; subtile; not dense; -- said of fluids.
Tenuous (a.) Lacking substance, as a tenuous argument.
Tenure (n.) The act or right of holding, as property, especially real estate.
Tenure (n.) The manner of holding lands and tenements of a superior.
Tenure (n.) The consideration, condition, or service which the occupier of land gives to his lord or superior for the use of his land.
Tenure (n.) Manner of holding, in general; as, in absolute governments, men hold their rights by a precarious tenure.
Teocallis (pl. ) of Teocalli
Teocalli (n.) Literally, God's house; a temple, usually of pyramidal form, such as were built by the aborigines of Mexico, Yucatan, etc.
Teosinte (n.) A large grass (Euchlaena luxurians) closely related to maize. It is native of Mexico and Central America, but is now cultivated for fodder in the Southern United States and in many warm countries. Called also Guatemala grass.
Tepal (n.) A division of a perianth.
Tepee (n.) An Indian wigwam or tent.
Tepefaction (n.) Act of tepefying.
Tepefied (imp. & p. p.) of Tepefy
Tepefying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tepefy
Tepefy (v. t. & i.) To make or become tepid, or moderately warm.
Tephramancy (n.) Divination by the ashes of the altar on which a victim had been consumed in sacrifice.
Tephrite (n.) An igneous rock consisting essentially of plagioclase and either leucite or nephelite, or both.
Tephroite (n.) A silicate of manganese of an ash-gray color.
Tephrosia (n.) A genus of leguminous shrubby plants and herbs, mostly found in tropical countries, a few herbaceous species being North American. The foliage is often ashy-pubescent, whence the name.
Tepid (a.) Moderately warm; lukewarm; as, a tepid bath; tepid rays; tepid vapors.
Tepidity (n.) The quality or state of being tepid; moderate warmth; lukewarmness; tepidness.
Tepor (n.) Gentle heat; moderate warmth; tepidness.
Tequila (n.) An intoxicating liquor made from the maguey in the district of Tequila, Mexico.
Ter- () A combining form from L. ter signifying three times, thrice. See Tri-, 2.
Teraconic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the distillation of terebic acid, and homologous with citraconic acid.
Teracrylic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the acrylic series, obtained by the distillation of terpenylic acid, as an only substance having a peculiar cheesy odor.
Teraphs (pl. ) of Teraph
Teraph (n.) See Teraphim.
Teraphim (n. pl.) Images connected with the magical rites used by those Israelites who added corrupt practices to the patriarchal religion. Teraphim were consulted by the Israelites for oracular answers.
Terapin (n.) See Terrapin.
Teratical (a.) Wonderful; ominous; prodigious.
Teratogeny (n.) The formation of monsters.
Teratoid (a.) Resembling a monster; abnormal; of a pathological growth, exceedingly complex or highly organized.
Teratological (a.) Of or pertaining to teratology; as, teratological changes.
Teratology (n.) That branch of biological science which treats of monstrosities, malformations, or deviations from the normal type of structure, either in plants or animals.
Teratology (n.) Affectation of sublimity; bombast.
Teratoma (n.) A tumor, sometimes found in newborn children, which is made up of a heterigenous mixture of tissues, as of bone, cartilage and muscle.
Terbic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or containing, terbium; also, designating certain of its compounds.
Terbium (n.) A rare metallic element, of uncertain identification, supposed to exist in certain minerals, as gadolinite and samarskite, with other rare ytterbium earth. Symbol Tr or Tb. Atomic weight 150.
Terce (n.) See Tierce.
Tercel (n.) See Tiercel. Called also tarsel, tassel.
Tercelet (n.) A male hawk or eagle; a tiercelet.
Tercellene (n.) A small male hawk.
Tercentenary (a.) Including, or relating to, an interval of three hundred years.
Tercentenary (n.) The three hundredth anniversary of any event; also, a celebration of such an anniversary.
Tercet (n.) A triplet.
Tercet (n.) A triplet; a group of three lines.
Tercine (n.) A cellular layer derived from the nucleus of an ovule and surrounding the embryo sac. Cf. Quintine.
Terebate (n.) A salt of terebic acid.
Terebene (n.) A polymeric modification of terpene, obtained as a white crystalline camphorlike substance; -- called also camphene. By extension, any one of a group of related substances.
Terebenthene (n.) Oil of turpentine. See Turpentine.
Terebic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, terbenthene (oil of turpentine); specifically, designating an acid, C7H10O4, obtained by the oxidation of terbenthene with nitric acid, as a white crystalline substance.
Terebilenic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex acid, C7H8O4, obtained as a white crystalline substance by a modified oxidation of terebic acid.
Terebinth (n.) The turpentine tree.
Terebinthic (a.) Of or pertaining to turpentine; resembling turpentine; terbinthine; as, terbinthic qualities.
Terebinthinate (a.) Impregnating with the qualities of turpentine; terbinthine.
Terebinthine (a.) Of or pertaining to turpentine; consisting of turpentine, or partaking of its qualities.
Terebras (pl. ) of Terebra
Terebrae (pl. ) of Terebra
Terebra (n.) A genus of marine gastropods having a long, tapering spire. They belong to the Toxoglossa. Called also auger shell.
Terebra (n.) The boring ovipositor of a hymenopterous insect.
Terebrant (a.) Boring, or adapted for boring; -- said of certain Hymenoptera, as the sawflies.
Terebrantia (n. pl.) A division of Hymenoptera including those which have an ovipositor adapted for perforating plants. It includes the sawflies.
Terebrate (v. t.) To perforate; to bore; to pierce.
Terebrating (a.) Boring; perforating; -- applied to molluskas which form holes in rocks, wood, etc.
Terebrating (a.) Boring; piercing; -- applied to certain kinds of pain, especially to those of locomotor ataxia.
Terebration (n.) The act of terebrating, or boring.
Terebratulae (pl. ) of Terebratula
Terebratula (n.) A genus of brachiopods which includes many living and some fossil species. The larger valve has a perforated beak, through which projects a short peduncle for attachment. Called also lamp shell.
Terebratulid (n.) Any species of Terebratula or allied genera. Used also adjectively.
Terebratuliform (a.) Having the general form of a terebratula shell.
Teredine (n.) A borer; the teredo.
Teredos (pl. ) of Teredo
Teredines (pl. ) of Teredo
Teredo (n.) A genus of long, slender, wormlike bivalve mollusks which bore into submerged wood, such as the piles of wharves, bottoms of ships, etc.; -- called also shipworm. See Shipworm. See Illust. in App.
Terephthalate (n.) A salt of terephthalic acid.
Terephthalic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a dibasic acid of the aromatic series, metameric with phthalic acid, and obtained, as a tasteless white crystalline powder, by the oxidation of oil of turpentine; -- called also paraphthalic acid. Cf. Phthalic.
Teret (a.) Round; terete.
Terete (a.) Cylindrical and slightly tapering; columnar, as some stems of plants.
Teretial (a.) Rounded; as, the teretial tracts in the floor of the fourth ventricle of the brain of some fishes.
Teretous (a.) Terete.
Tergal (a.) Of or pertaining to back, or tergum. See Dorsal.
Tergant (a.) Showing the back; as, the eagle tergant.
Tergeminal (a.) Alt. of Tergeminate
Tergeminate (a.) Thrice twin; having three pairs of leaflets.
Tergeminous (a.) Threefold; thrice-paired.
Tergiferous (a.) Carrying or bearing upon the back.
Tergite (n.) The dorsal portion of an arthromere or somite of an articulate animal. See Illust. under Coleoptera.
Tergiversate (v. i.) To shift; to practice evasion; to use subterfuges; to shuffle.
Tergiversation (n.) The act of tergiversating; a shifting; shift; subterfuge; evasion.
Tergiversation (n.) Fickleness of conduct; inconstancy; change.
Tergiversator (n.) One who tergiversates; one who suffles, or practices evasion.
Terga (pl. ) of Tergum
Tergum (n.) The back of an animal.
Tergum (n.) The dorsal piece of a somite of an articulate animal.
Tergum (n.) One of the dorsal plates of the operculum of a cirriped.
Terin (n.) A small yellow singing bird, with an ash-colored head; the European siskin. Called also tarin.
Term (n.) That which limits the extent of anything; limit; extremity; bound; boundary.
Term (n.) The time for which anything lasts; any limited time; as, a term of five years; the term of life.
Term (n.) In universities, schools, etc., a definite continuous period during which instruction is regularly given to students; as, the school year is divided into three terms.
Term (n.) A point, line, or superficies, that limits; as, a line is the term of a superficies, and a superficies is the term of a solid.
Term (n.) A fixed period of time; a prescribed duration
Term (n.) The limitation of an estate; or rather, the whole time for which an estate is granted, as for the term of a life or lives, or for a term of years.
Term (n.) A space of time granted to a debtor for discharging his obligation.
Term (n.) The time in which a court is held or is open for the trial of causes.
Term (n.) The subject or the predicate of a proposition; one of the three component parts of a syllogism, each one of which is used twice.
Term (n.) A word or expression; specifically, one that has a precisely limited meaning in certain relations and uses, or is peculiar to a science, art, profession, or the like; as, a technical term.
Term (n.) A quadrangular pillar, adorned on the top with the figure of a head, as of a man, woman, or satyr; -- called also terminal figure. See Terminus, n., 2 and 3.
Term (n.) A member of a compound quantity; as, a or b in a + b; ab or cd in ab - cd.
Term (n.) The menses.
Term (n.) Propositions or promises, as in contracts, which, when assented to or accepted by another, settle the contract and bind the parties; conditions.
Term (n.) In Scotland, the time fixed for the payment of rents.
Term (n.) A piece of carved work placed under each end of the taffrail.
Termed (imp. & p. p.) of Term
Terming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Term
Term (n.) To apply a term to; to name; to call; to denominate.
Terma (n.) The terminal lamina, or thin ventral part, of the anterior wall of the third ventricle of the brain.
Termagancy (n.) The quality or state of being termagant; turbulence; tumultuousness; as, a violent termagancy of temper.
Termagant (n.) An imaginary being supposed by the Christians to be a Mohammedan deity or false god. He is represented in the ancient moralities, farces, and puppet shows as extremely vociferous and tumultous.
Termagant (n.) A boisterous, brawling, turbulent person; -- formerly applied to both sexes, now only to women.
Termagant (a.) Tumultuous; turbulent; boisterous; furious; quarrelsome; scolding.
Termatarium (n.) Any nest or dwelling of termes, or white ants.
Termatary (n.) Same as Termatarium.
Termer (n.) One who resorted to London during the law term only, in order to practice tricks, to carry on intrigues, or the like.
Termer (n.) One who has an estate for a term of years or for life.
Termites (pl. ) of Termes
Termes (n.) A genus of Pseudoneuroptera including the white ants, or termites. See Termite.
Terminable (a.) Capable of being terminated or bounded; limitable.
Terminal (n.) Of or pertaining to the end or extremity; forming the extremity; as, a terminal edge.
Terminal (n.) Growing at the end of a branch or stem; terminating; as, a terminal bud, flower, or spike.
Terminal (n.) That which terminates or ends; termination; extremity.
Terminal (n.) Either of the ends of the conducting circuit of an electrical apparatus, as an inductorium, dynamo, or electric motor, usually provided with binding screws for the attachment of wires by which a current may be conveyed into or from the machine; a pole.
Terminalia (n. pl.) A festival celebrated annually by the Romans on February 23 in honor of Terminus, the god of boundaries.
Terminant (n.) Termination; ending.
Terminated (imp. & p. p.) of Terminate
Terminating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Terminate
Terminate (v. t.) To set a term or limit to; to form the extreme point or side of; to bound; to limit; as, to terminate a surface by a line.
Terminate (v. t.) To put an end to; to make to cease; as, to terminate an effort, or a controversy.
Terminate (v. t.) Hence, to put the finishing touch to; to bring to completion; to perfect.
Terminate (v. i.) To be limited in space by a point, line, or surface; to stop short; to end; to cease; as, the torrid zone terminates at the tropics.
Terminate (v. i.) To come to a limit in time; to end; to close.
Termination (n.) The act of terminating, or of limiting or setting bounds; the act of ending or concluding; as, a voluntary termination of hostilities.
Termination (n.) That which ends or bounds; limit in space or extent; bound; end; as, the termination of a line.
Termination (n.) End in time or existence; as, the termination of the year, or of life; the termination of happiness.
Termination (n.) End; conclusion; result.
Termination (n.) Last purpose of design.
Termination (n.) A word; a term.
Termination (n.) The ending of a word; a final syllable or letter; the part added to a stem in inflection.
Terminational (a.) Of or pertaining to termination; forming a termination.
Terminative (a.) Tending or serving to terminate; terminating; determining; definitive.
Terminator (n.) One who, or that which, terminates.
Terminator (n.) The dividing line between the illuminated and the unilluminated part of the moon.
Terminatory (a.) Terminative.
Termine (v. t.) To terminate.
Terminer (n.) A determining; as, in oyer and terminer. See Oyer.
Terminism (n.) The doctrine held by the Terminists.
Terminist (n.) One of a class of theologians who maintain that God has fixed a certain term for the probation of individual persons, during which period, and no longer, they have the offer to grace.
Terminological (a.) Of or pertaining to terminology.
Terminology (n.) The doctrine of terms; a theory of terms or appellations; a treatise on terms.
Terminology (n.) The terms actually used in any business, art, science, or the like; nomenclature; technical terms; as, the terminology of chemistry.
Termini (pl. ) of Terminus
Terminus (n.) Literally, a boundary; a border; a limit.
Terminus (n.) The Roman divinity who presided over boundaries, whose statue was properly a short pillar terminating in the bust of a man, woman, satyr, or the like, but often merely a post or stone stuck in the ground on a boundary line.
Terminus (n.) Hence, any post or stone marking a boundary; a term. See Term, 8.
Terminus (n.) Either end of a railroad line; also, the station house, or the town or city, at that place.
Termites (pl. ) of Termite
Termite (n.) Any one of numerous species of pseudoneoropterous insects belonging to Termes and allied genera; -- called also white ant. See Illust. of White ant.
Termless (a.) Having no term or end; unlimited; boundless; unending; as, termless time.
Termless (a.) Inexpressible; indescribable.
Termly (a.) Occurring every term; as, a termly fee.
Termly (adv.) Term by term; every term.
Termonology (n.) Terminology.
Termor (n.) Same as Termer, 2.
Tern (n.) Any one of numerous species of long-winged aquatic birds, allied to the gulls, and belonging to Sterna and various allied genera.
Tern (a.) Threefold; triple; consisting of three; ternate.
Tern (a.) That which consists of, or pertains to, three things or numbers together; especially, a prize in a lottery resulting from the favorable combination of three numbers in the drawing; also, the three numbers themselves.
Ternary (a.) Proceeding by threes; consisting of three; as, the ternary number was anciently esteemed a symbol of perfection, and held in great veneration.
Ternary (a.) Containing, or consisting of, three different parts, as elements, atoms, groups, or radicals, which are regarded as having different functions or relations in the molecule; thus, sodic hydroxide, NaOH, is a ternary compound.
Ternaries (pl. ) of Ternary
Ternary (n.) A ternion; the number three; three things taken together; a triad.
Ternate (a.) Having the parts arranged by threes; as, ternate branches, leaves, or flowers.
Terneplate (a.) Thin iron sheets coated with an alloy of lead and tin; -- so called because made up of three metals.
Ternion (a.) The number three; three things together; a ternary.
Terpene (n.) Any one of a series of isomeric hydrocarbons of pleasant aromatic odor, occurring especially in coniferous plants and represented by oil of turpentine, but including also certain hydrocarbons found in some essential oils.
Terpentic (a.) Terpenylic.
Terpenylic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C8H12O4 (called also terpentic acid), homologous with terebic acid, and obtained as a white crystalline substance by the oxidation of oil of turpentine with chromic acid.
Terpilene (n.) A polymeric form of terpene, resembling terbene.
Terpin (n.) A white crystalline substance regarded as a hydrate of oil of turpentine.
Terpinol (n.) Any oil substance having a hyacinthine odor, obtained by the action of acids on terpin, and regarded as a related hydrate.
Terpsichore (n.) The Muse who presided over the choral song and the dance, especially the latter.
Terpsichorean (a.) Of or pertaining to Terpsichore; of or pertaining to dancing.
Terra (n.) The earth; earth.
Terrace (v.) A raised level space, shelf, or platform of earth, supported on one or more sides by a wall, a bank of tuft, or the like, whether designed for use or pleasure.
Terrace (v.) A balcony, especially a large and uncovered one.
Terrace (v.) A flat roof to a house; as, the buildings of the Oriental nations are covered with terraces.
Terrace (v.) A street, or a row of houses, on a bank or the side of a hill; hence, any street, or row of houses.
Terrace (v.) A level plain, usually with a steep front, bordering a river, a lake, or sometimes the sea.
Terraced (imp. & p. p.) of Terrace
Terracing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Terrace
Terrace (v. t.) To form into a terrace or terraces; to furnish with a terrace or terraces, as, to terrace a garden, or a building.
Terraculture (n.) Cultivation on the earth; agriculture.
Terrane (n.) A group of rocks having a common age or origin; -- nearly equivalent to formation, but used somewhat less comprehensively.
Terrapin (n.) Any one of numerous species of tortoises living in fresh and brackish waters. Many of them are valued for food.
Terraqueous (a.) Consisting of land and water; as, the earth is a terraqueous globe.
Terrar (n.) See 2d Terrier, 2.
Terras (n.) See /rass.
Terreen (n.) See Turren.
Terreity (n.) Quality of being earthy; earthiness.
Terrel (n.) A spherical magnet so placed that its poles, equator, etc., correspond to those of the earth.
Terremote (n.) An earthquake.
Terrene (n.) A tureen.
Terrene (a.) Of or pertaining to the earth; earthy; as, terrene substance.
Terrene (a.) Earthy; terrestrial.
Terrene (n.) The earth's surface; the earth.
Terrene (n.) The surface of the ground.
Terrenity (n.) Earthiness; worldliness.
Terreous (a.) Consisting of earth; earthy; as, terreous substances; terreous particles.
Terreplein (n.) The top, platform, or horizontal surface, of a rampart, on which the cannon are placed. See Illust. of Casemate.
Terrestre (a.) Terrestrial; earthly.
Terrestrial (a.) Of or pertaining to the earth; existing on the earth; earthly; as, terrestrial animals.
Terrestrial (a.) Representing, or consisting of, the earth; as, a terrestrial globe.
Terrestrial (a.) Of or pertaining to the world, or to the present state; sublunary; mundane.
Terrestrial (a.) Consisting of land, in distinction from water; belonging to, or inhabiting, the land or ground, in distinction from trees, water, or the like; as, terrestrial serpents.
Terrestrial (a.) Adapted for the observation of objects on land and on the earth; as, a terrestrial telescope, in distinction from an astronomical telescope.
Terrestrial (n.) An inhabitant of the earth.
Terrestrify (v. t.) To convert or reduce into a condition like that of the earth; to make earthy.
Terrestrious (a.) Terrestrial.
Terret (n.) One of the rings on the top of the saddle of a harness, through which the reins pass.
Terre-tenant (n.) One who has the actual possession of land; the occupant.
Terre-verte (n.) An olive-green earth used as a pigment. See Glauconite.
Terrible (a.) Adapted or likely to excite terror, awe, or dread; dreadful; formidable.
Terrible (a.) Excessive; extreme; severe.
Terricolae (n. pl.) A division of annelids including the common earthworms and allied species.
Terrienniak (n.) The arctic fox.
Terrier (n.) An auger or borer.
Terrier (n.) One of a breed of small dogs, which includes several distinct subbreeds, some of which, such as the Skye terrier and Yorkshire terrier, have long hair and drooping ears, while others, at the English and the black-and-tan terriers, have short, close, smooth hair and upright ears.
Terrier (n.) Formerly, a collection of acknowledgments of the vassals or tenants of a lordship, containing the rents and services they owed to the lord, and the like.
Terrier (n.) In modern usage, a book or roll in which the lands of private persons or corporations are described by their site, boundaries, number of acres, or the like.
Terrific (a.) Causing terror; adapted to excite great fear or dread; terrible; as, a terrific form; a terrific sight.
Terrifical (a.) Terrific.
Terrifically (adv.) In a terrific manner.
Terrified (imp. & p. p.) of Terrify
Terrifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Terrify
Terrify (v. t.) To make terrible.
Terrify (v. t.) To alarm or shock with fear; to frighten.
Terrigenous (a.) Earthborn; produced by the earth.
Territorial (a.) Of or pertaining to territory or land; as, territorial limits; territorial jurisdiction.
Territorial (a.) Limited to a certain district; as, right may be personal or territorial.
Territorial (a.) Of or pertaining to all or any of the Territories of the United States, or to any district similarly organized elsewhere; as, Territorial governments.
Territorialized (imp. & p. p.) of Territorialize
Territorializing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Territorialize
Territorialize (v. t.) To enlarge by extension of territory.
Territorialize (v. t.) To reduce to the condition of a territory.
Territorially (adv.) In regard to territory; by means of territory.
Territoried (a.) Possessed of territory.
Territories (pl. ) of Territory
Territory (n.) A large extent or tract of land; a region; a country; a district.
Territory (n.) The extent of land belonging to, or under the dominion of, a prince, state, or other form of government; often, a tract of land lying at a distance from the parent country or from the seat of government; as, the territory of a State; the territories of the East India Company.
Territory (n.) In the United States, a portion of the country not included within the limits of any State, and not yet admitted as a State into the Union, but organized with a separate legislature, under a Territorial governor and other officers appointed by the President and Senate of the United States. In Canada, a similarly organized portion of the country not yet formed into a Province.
Terror (n.) Extreme fear; fear that agitates body and mind; violent dread; fright.
Terror (n.) That which excites dread; a cause of extreme fear.
Terrorism (n.) The act of terrorizing, or state of being terrorized; a mode of government by terror or intimidation.
Terrorism (n.) The practise of coercing governments to accede to political demands by committing violence on civilian targets; any similar use of violence to achieve goals.
Terrorist (n.) One who governs by terrorism or intimidation; specifically, an agent or partisan of the revolutionary tribunal during the Reign of Terror in France.
Terrorize (v. t.) To impress with terror; to coerce by intimidation.
Terrorless (a.) Free from terror.
Terry (n.) A kind of heavy colored fabric, either all silk, or silk and worsted, or silk and cotton, often called terry velvet, used for upholstery and trimmings.
Tersanctus (n.) An ancient ascription of praise (containing the word "Holy" -- in its Latin form, "Sanctus" -- thrice repeated), used in the Mass of the Roman Catholic Church and before the prayer of consecration in the communion service of the Church of England and the Protestant Episcopal Church. Cf. Trisagion.
Terse (superl.) Appearing as if rubbed or wiped off; rubbed; smooth; polished.
Terse (superl.) Refined; accomplished; -- said of persons.
Terse (superl.) Elegantly concise; free of superfluous words; polished to smoothness; as, terse language; a terse style.
Tersulphide (n.) A trisulphide.
Tersulphuret (n.) A trisulphide.
Ter-tenant (n.) See Terre-tenant.
Tertial (a. & n.) Same as Tertiary.
Tertian (a.) Occurring every third day; as, a tertian fever.
Tertian (n.) A disease, especially an intermittent fever, which returns every third day, reckoning inclusively, or in which the intermission lasts one day.
Tertian (n.) A liquid measure formerly used for wine, equal to seventy imperial, or eighty-four wine, gallons, being one third of a tun.
Tertiary (a.) Being of the third formation, order, or rank; third; as, a tertiary use of a word.
Tertiary (a.) Possessing some quality in the third degree; having been subjected to the substitution of three atoms or radicals; as, a tertiary alcohol, amine, or salt. Cf. Primary, and Secondary.
Tertiary (a.) Later than, or subsequent to, the Secondary.
Tertiary (a.) Growing on the innermost joint of a bird's wing; tertial; -- said of quills.
Tertiaries (pl. ) of Tertiary
Tertiary (n.) A member of the Third Order in any monastic system; as, the Franciscan tertiaries; the Dominican tertiaries; the Carmelite tertiaries. See Third Order, under Third.
Tertiary (n.) The Tertiary era, period, or formation.
Tertiary (n.) One of the quill feathers which are borne upon the basal joint of the wing of a bird. See Illust. of Bird.
Tertiate (v. t.) To do or perform for the third time.
Tertiate (v. t.) To examine, as the thickness of the metal at the muzzle of a gun; or, in general, to examine the thickness of, as ordnance, in order to ascertain its strength.
Terutero (n.) The South American lapwing (Vanellus Cayennensis). Its wings are furnished with short spurs. Called also Cayenne lapwing.
Terza rima () A peculiar and complicated system of versification, borrowed by the early Italian poets from the Troubadours.
Terzetto (n.) A composition in three voice parts; a vocal (rarely an instrumental) trio.
Tesselar (a.) Formed of tesserae, as a mosaic.
Tessellata (n. pl.) A division of Crinoidea including numerous fossil species in which the body is covered with tessellated plates.
Tessellated (imp. & p. p.) of Tessellate
Tessellating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tessellate
Tessellate (v. t.) To form into squares or checkers; to lay with checkered work.
Tessellate (a.) Tessellated.
Tessellated (a.) Formed of little squares, as mosaic work; checkered; as, a tessellated pavement.
Tessellated (a.) Marked like a checkerboard; as, a tessellated leaf.
Tessellation (n.) The act of tessellating; also, the mosaic work so formed.
Tesserae (pl. ) of Tessera
Tessera (n.) A small piece of marble, glass, earthenware, or the like, having a square, or nearly square, face, used by the ancients for mosaic, as for making pavements, for ornamenting walls, and like purposes; also, a similar piece of ivory, bone, wood, etc., used as a ticket of admission to theaters, or as a certificate for successful gladiators, and as a token for various other purposes.
Tesseraic (a.) Diversified by squares; done in mosaic; tessellated.
Tesseral (a.) Of, pertaining to, or containing, tesserae.
Tesseral (a.) Isometric.
Tessular (a.) Tesseral.
Test (n.) A cupel or cupelling hearth in which precious metals are melted for trial and refinement.
Test (n.) Examination or trial by the cupel; hence, any critical examination or decisive trial; as, to put a man's assertions to a test.
Test (n.) Means of trial; as, absence is a test of love.
Test (n.) That with which anything is compared for proof of its genuineness; a touchstone; a standard.
Test (n.) Discriminative characteristic; standard of judgment; ground of admission or exclusion.
Test (n.) Judgment; distinction; discrimination.
Test (n.) A reaction employed to recognize or distinguish any particular substance or constituent of a compound, as the production of some characteristic precipitate; also, the reagent employed to produce such reaction; thus, the ordinary test for sulphuric acid is the production of a white insoluble precipitate of barium sulphate by means of some soluble barium salt.
Tested (imp. & p. p.) of Test
Testing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Test
Test (v. t.) To refine, as gold or silver, in a test, or cupel; to subject to cupellation.
Test (v. t.) To put to the proof; to prove the truth, genuineness, or quality of by experiment, or by some principle or standard; to try; as, to test the soundness of a principle; to test the validity of an argument.
Test (v. t.) To examine or try, as by the use of some reagent; as, to test a solution by litmus paper.
Test (n.) A witness.
Test (v. i.) To make a testament, or will.
Tests (pl. ) of Testa
Testae (pl. ) of Testa
Test (n.) Alt. of Testa
Testa (n.) The external hard or firm covering of many invertebrate animals.
Testa (n.) The outer integument of a seed; the episperm, or spermoderm.
Testable (a.) Capable of being tested or proved.
Testable (a.) Capable of being devised, or given by will.
Testacea (n. pl.) Invertebrate animals covered with shells, especially mollusks; shellfish.
Testacean (n.) Onr of the Testacea.
Testaceography (n.) The science which treats of testaceans, or shellfish; the description of shellfish.
Testaceology (n.) The science of testaceous mollusks; conchology.
Testaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to shells; consisted of a hard shell, or having a hard shell.
Testaceous (a.) Having a dull red brick color or a brownish yellow color.
Testacy (n.) The state or circumstance of being testate, or of leaving a valid will, or testament, at death.
Testament (n.) A solemn, authentic instrument in writing, by which a person declares his will as to disposal of his estate and effects after his death.
Testament (n.) One of the two distinct revelations of God's purposes toward man; a covenant; also, one of the two general divisions of the canonical books of the sacred Scriptures, in which the covenants are respectively revealed; as, the Old Testament; the New Testament; -- often limited, in colloquial language, to the latter.
Testamental (a.) Of or pertaining to a testament; testamentary.
Testamentary (a.) Of or pertaining to a will, or testament; as, letters testamentary.
Testamentary (a.) Bequeathed by will; given by testament.
Testamentary (a.) Done, appointed by, or founded on, a testament, or will; as, a testamentary guardian of a minor, who may be appointed by the will of a father to act in that capacity until the child becomes of age.
Testamentation (n.) The act or power of giving by testament, or will.
Testamentize (v. i.) To make a will.
Testamur (n.) A certificate of merit or proficiency; -- so called from the Latin words, Ita testamur, with which it commences.
Testate (a.) Having made and left a will; as, a person is said to die testate.
Testate (n.) One who leaves a valid will at death; a testate person.
Testation (n.) A witnessing or witness.
Testator (n.) A man who makes and leaves a will, or testament, at death.
Testatrix (n.) A woman who makes and leaves a will at death; a female testator.
Teste (n.) A witness.
Teste (n.) The witnessing or concluding clause, duty attached; -- said of a writ, deed, or the like.
Tester (n.) A headpiece; a helmet.
Tester (n.) A flat canopy, as over a pulpit or tomb.
Tester (n.) A canopy over a bed, supported by the bedposts.
Tester (n.) An old French silver coin, originally of the value of about eighteen pence, subsequently reduced to ninepence, and later to sixpence, sterling. Hence, in modern English slang, a sixpence; -- often contracted to tizzy. Called also teston.
Testern (n.) A sixpence; a tester.
Testern (v. t.) To present with a tester.
Testes (n.) pl. of Teste, or of Testis.
Testicardines (n. pl.) A division of brachiopods including those which have a calcareous shell furnished with a hinge and hinge teeth. Terebratula and Spirifer are examples.
Testicle (n.) One of the essential male genital glands which secrete the semen.
Testicond (a.) Having the testicles naturally concealed, as in the case of the cetaceans.
Testicular (a.) Of or pertaining to the testicle.
Testiculate (a.) Shaped like a testicle, ovate and solid.
Testiculate (a.) Having two tubers resembling testicles in form, as some species of orchis.
Testiere (n.) A piece of plate armor for the head of a war horse; a tester.
Testif (a.) Testy; headstrong; obstinate.
Testification (n.) The act of testifying, or giving testimony or evidence; as, a direct testification of our homage to God.
Testificator (n.) A testifier.
Testifier (n.) One who testifies; one who gives testimony, or bears witness to prove anything; a witness.
Testified (imp. & p. p.) of Testify
Testifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Testify
Testify (v. i.) To make a solemn declaration, verbal or written, to establish some fact; to give testimony for the purpose of communicating to others a knowledge of something not known to them.
Testify (v. i.) To make a solemn declaration under oath or affirmation, for the purpose of establishing, or making proof of, some fact to a court; to give testimony in a cause depending before a tribunal.
Testify (v. i.) To declare a charge; to protest; to give information; to bear witness; -- with against.
Testify (v. t.) To bear witness to; to support the truth of by testimony; to affirm or declare solemny.
Testify (v. t.) To affirm or declare under oath or affirmation before a tribunal, in order to prove some fact.
Testify (adv.) In a testy manner; fretfully; peevishly; with petulance.
Testimonial (a.) A writing or certificate which bears testimony in favor of one's character, good conduct, ability, etc., or of the value of a thing.
Testimonial (a.) Something, as money or plate, presented to a preson as a token of respect, or of obligation for services rendered.
Testimonial (a.) Relating to, or containing, testimony.
Testimonies (pl. ) of Testimony
Testimony (n.) A solemn declaration or affirmation made for the purpose of establishing or proving some fact.
Testimony (n.) Affirmation; declaration; as, these doctrines are supported by the uniform testimony of the fathers; the belief of past facts must depend on the evidence of human testimony, or the testimony of historians.
Testimony (n.) Open attestation; profession.
Testimony (n.) Witness; evidence; proof of some fact.
Testimony (n.) The two tables of the law.
Testimony (n.) Hence, the whole divine revelation; the sacre/ Scriptures.
Testimony (v. t.) To witness; to attest; to prove by testimony.
Testiness (n.) The quality or state of being testy; fretfulness; petulance.
Testing (n.) The act of testing or proving; trial; proof.
Testing (n.) The operation of refining gold or silver in a test, or cupel; cupellation.
Testes (pl. ) of Testis
Testis (n.) A testicle.
Teston (n.) A tester; a sixpence.
Testone (n.) A silver coin of Portugal, worth about sixpence sterling, or about eleven cents.
Testoon (n.) An Italian silver coin. The testoon of Rome is worth 1s. 3d. sterling, or about thirty cents.
Testudinal (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a tortoise.
Testudinarious (a.) Of or pertaining to the shell of a tortoise; resembling a tortoise shell; having the color or markings of a tortoise shell.
Testudinata (n. pl.) An order of reptiles which includes the turtles and tortoises. The body is covered by a shell consisting of an upper or dorsal shell, called the carapace, and a lower or ventral shell, called the plastron, each of which consists of several plates.
Testudinate (a.) Alt. of Testudinated
Testudinated (a.) Resembling a tortoise shell in appearance or structure; roofed; arched; vaulted.
Testudineous (a.) Resembling the shell of a tortoise.
Testudines (pl. ) of Testudo
Testudo (n.) A genus of tortoises which formerly included a large number of diverse forms, but is now restricted to certain terrestrial species, such as the European land tortoise (Testudo Graeca) and the gopher of the Southern United States.
Testudo (n.) A cover or screen which a body of troops formed with their shields or targets, by holding them over their heads when standing close to each other. This cover resembled the back of a tortoise, and served to shelter the men from darts, stones, and other missiles. A similar defense was sometimes formed of boards, and moved on wheels.
Testudo (n.) A kind of musical instrument. a species of lyre; -- so called in allusion to the lyre of Mercury, fabled to have been made of the shell of a tortoise.
Testy (superl.) Fretful; peevish; petulant; easily irritated.
Tetanic (a.) Of or pertaining to tetanus; having the character of tetanus; as, a tetanic state; tetanic contraction.
Tetanic (a.) Producing, or tending to produce, tetanus, or tonic contraction of the muscles; as, a tetanic remedy. See Tetanic, n.
Tetanic (n.) A substance (notably nux vomica, strychnine, and brucine) which, either as a remedy or a poison, acts primarily on the spinal cord, and which, when taken in comparatively large quantity, produces tetanic spasms or convulsions.
Tetanin (n.) A poisonous base (ptomaine) formed in meat broth through the agency of a peculiar microbe from the wound of a person who has died of tetanus; -- so called because it produces tetanus as one of its prominent effects.
Tetanization (n.) The production or condition of tetanus.
Tetanize (v. t.) To throw, as a muscle, into a state of permanent contraction; to cause tetanus in. See Tetanus, n., 2.
Tetanoid (a.) Resembling tetanus.
Tetanomotor (n.) An instrument from tetanizing a muscle by irritating its nerve by successive mechanical shocks.
Tetanus (n.) A painful and usually fatal disease, resulting generally from a wound, and having as its principal symptom persistent spasm of the voluntary muscles. When the muscles of the lower jaw are affected, it is called locked-jaw, or lickjaw, and it takes various names from the various incurvations of the body resulting from the spasm.
Tetanus (n.) That condition of a muscle in which it is in a state of continued vibratory contraction, as when stimulated by a series of induction shocks.
Tetany (n.) A morbid condition resembling tetanus, but distinguished from it by being less severe and having intermittent spasms.
Tetard (n.) A gobioid fish (Eleotris gyrinus) of the Southern United States; -- called also sleeper.
Tetartohedral (a.) Having one fourth the number of planes which are requisite to complete symmetry.
Tetartohedrism (n.) The property of being tetartohedral.
Tetaug (n.) See Tautog.
Tetchiness (n.) See Techiness.
Tetchy (a.) See Techy.
Tete (n.) A kind of wig; false hair.
Tete-a-tete (n.) Private conversation; familiar interview or conference of two persons.
Tete-a-tete (n.) A short sofa intended to accomodate two persons.
Tete-a-tete (a.) Private; confidential; familiar.
Tete-a-tete (adv.) Face to face; privately or confidentially; familiarly.
Tetes-de-pont (pl. ) of Tete-de-pont
Tete-de-pont (n.) A work thrown up at the end of a bridge nearest the enemy, for covering the communications across a river; a bridgehead.
Tetel (n.) A large African antelope (Alcelaphus tora). It has widely divergent, strongly ringed horns.
Tether (n.) A long rope or chain by which an animal is fastened, as to a stake, so that it can range or feed only within certain limits.
Tethered (imp. & p. p.) of Tether
Tethering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tether
Tether (v. t.) To confine, as an animal, with a long rope or chain, as for feeding within certain limits.
Tethydan (n.) A tunicate.
Tethyodea (n. pl.) A division of Tunicata including the common attached ascidians, both simple and compound. Called also Tethioidea.
Tethys (n.) A genus of a large naked mollusks having a very large, broad, fringed cephalic disk, and branched dorsal gills. Some of the species become a foot long and are brilliantly colored.
Tetra- () A combining form or prefix signifying four, as in tetrabasic, tetrapetalous.
Tetra- () A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting four proportional or combining parts of the substance or ingredient denoted by the term to which it is prefixed, as in tetra-chloride, tetroxide.
Tetrabasic (a.) Capable of neutralizing four molecules of a monacid base; having four hydrogen atoms capable of replacement by bases; quadribasic; -- said of certain acids; thus, normal silicic acid, Si(OH)4, is a tetrabasic acid.
Tetraboric (a.) Same as Pyroboric.
Tetrabranchiata (n. pl.) An order of Cephalopoda having four gills. Among living species it includes only the pearly nautilus. Numerous genera and species are found in the fossil state, such as Ammonites, Baculites, Orthoceras, etc.
Tetrabranchiate (a.) Of or pertaining to the Tetrabranchiata.
Tetrabranchiate (n.) One of the Tetrabranchiata.
Tetracarpel (a.) Composed of four carpels.
Tetrachord (n.) A scale series of four sounds, of which the extremes, or first and last, constituted a fourth. These extremes were immutable; the two middle sounds were changeable.
Tetrachotomous (a.) Having a division by fours; separated into four parts or series, or into series of fours.
Tetracid (a.) Capable of neutralizing four molecules of a monobasic acid; having four hydrogen atoms capable of replacement ba acids or acid atoms; -- said of certain bases; thus, erythrine, C4H6(OH)4, is a tetracid alcohol.
Tetracoccous (a.) Having four cocci, or carpels.
Tetracolon (n.) A stanza or division in lyric poetry, consisting of four verses or lines.
Tetracoralla (n. pl.) Same as Rugosa.
Tetractinellid (n.) Any species of sponge of the division Tetractinellida. Also used adjectively.
Tetractinellida (n. pl.) A division of Spongiae in which the spicules are siliceous and have four branches diverging at right angles. Called also Tetractinellinae.
Tetrad (n.) The number four; a collection of four things; a quaternion.
Tetrad (n.) A tetravalent or quadrivalent atom or radical; as, carbon is a tetrad.
Tetradactyl (a.) Alt. of Tetradactyle
Tetradactyle (a.) Tetradactylous.
Tetradactylous (a.) Having, or characterized by, four digits to the foot or hand.
Tetradecane (n.) A light oily hydrocarbon, C14H30, of the marsh-gas series; -- so called from the fourteen carbon atoms in the molecule.
Tetradecapoda (n. pl.) Same as Arthrostraca.
Tetradic (a.) Of or pertaining to a tetrad; possessing or having the characteristics of a tetrad; as, a carbon is a tetradic element.
Tetradite (n.) A person in some way remarkable with regard to the number four, as one born on the fourth day of the month, or one who reverenced four persons in the Godhead.
Tetradon (n.) See Tetrodon.
Tetradont (a. & n.) See Tetrodont.
Tetradrachm (n.) Alt. of Tetradrachma
Tetradrachma (n.) A silver coin among the ancient Greeks, of the value of four drachms.
Tetradymite (n.) A telluride of bismuth. It is of a pale steel-gray color and metallic luster, and usually occurs in foliated masses. Called also telluric bismuth.
Tetradynamia (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants having six stamens, four of which are longer than the others.
Tetradynamian (n.) A plant of the order Tetradynamia.
Tetradynamian (a.) Alt. of Tetradynamous
Tetradynamous (a.) Belonging to the order Tetradynamia; having six stamens, four of which are uniformly longer than the others.
Tetragon (n.) A plane figure having four sides and angles; a quadrangle, as a square, a rhombus, etc.
Tetragon (n.) An aspect of two planets with regard to the earth when they are distant from each other ninety degrees, or the fourth of a circle.
Tetragonal (a.) Of or pertaining to a tetragon; having four angles or sides; thus, the square, the parallelogram, the rhombus, and the trapezium are tetragonal fingers.
Tetragonal (a.) Having four prominent longitudinal angles.
Tetragonal (a.) Designating, or belonging to, a certain system of crystallization; dimetric. See Tetragonal system, under Crystallization.
Tetragrammaton (n.) The mystic number four, which was often symbolized to represent the Deity, whose name was expressed by four letters among some ancient nations; as, the Hebrew JeHoVaH, Greek qeo`s, Latin deus, etc.
Tetragynia (n. pl.) A Linnaean order of plants having four styles.
Tetragynian (a.) Alt. of Tetragynous
Tetragynous (a.) Belonging to the order Tetragynia; having four styles.
Tetrahedral (a.) Having, or composed of, four sides.
Tetrahedral (a.) Having the form of the regular tetrahedron.
Tetrahedral (a.) Pertaining or related to a tetrahedron, or to the system of hemihedral forms to which the tetrahedron belongs.
Tetrahedrally (adv.) In a tetrahedral manner.
Tetrahedrite (n.) A sulphide of antimony and copper, with small quantities of other metals. It is a very common ore of copper, and some varieties yield a considerable presentage of silver. Called also gray copper ore, fahlore, and panabase.
Tetrahedron (n.) A solid figure inclosed or bounded by four triangles.
Tetrahexahedral (a.) Pertaining to a tetrahexahedron.
Tetrahexahedron (n.) A solid in the isometric system, bounded by twenty-four equal triangular faces, four corresponding to each face of the cube.
Tetrakishexahedron (n.) A tetrahexahedron.
Tetrakosane (n.) A hydrocarbon, C24H50, resembling paraffin, and like it belonging to the marsh-gas series; -- so called from having twenty-four atoms of carbon in the molecule.
Tetralogy (n.) A group or series of four dramatic pieces, three tragedies and one satyric, or comic, piece (or sometimes four tragedies), represented consequently on the Attic stage at the Dionysiac festival.
Tetramera (n. pl.) A division of Coleoptera having, apparently, only four tarsal joints, one joint being rudimentary.
Tetramerous (a.) Having the parts arranged in sets of four; as, a tetramerous flower.
Tetramerous (a.) Having four joints in each of the tarsi; -- said of certain insects.
Tetrameter (n.) A verse or line consisting of four measures, that is, in iambic, trochaic, and anapestic verse, of eight feet; in other kinds of verse, of four feet.
Tetramethylene (n.) A hypothetical hydrocarbon, C4H8, analogous to trimethylene, and regarded as the base of well-known series or derivatives.
Tetramethylene (n.) Sometimes, an isomeric radical used to designate certain compounds which are really related to butylene.
Tetramorph (n.) The union of the four attributes of the Evangelists in one figure, which is represented as winged, and standing on winged fiery wheels, the wings being covered with eyes. The representations of it are evidently suggested by the vision of Ezekiel (ch. i.)
Tetrandria (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants having four stamens.
Tetrandrian (a.) Alt. of Tetrandrous
Tetrandrous (a.) Belonging to the class Tetrandria.
Tetraonid (n.) A bird belonging to the tribe of which the genus Tetrao is the type, as the grouse, partridge, quail, and the like. Used also adjectively.
Tetrapetalous (a.) Containing four distinct petals, or flower leaves; as, a tetrapetalous corolla.
Tetrapharmacom (n.) Alt. of Tetrapharmacum
Tetrapharmacum (n.) A combination of wax, resin, lard, and pitch, composing an ointment.
Tetraphenol (n.) Furfuran.
Tetraphyllous (a.) Having four leaves; consisting of four distinct leaves or leaflets.
Tetrapla (sing.) A Bible consisting of four different Greek versions arranged in four columns by Origen; hence, any version in four languages or four columns.
Tetraneumona (n. pl.) A division of Arachnida including those spiders which have four lungs, or pulmonary sacs. It includes the bird spiders (Mygale) and the trapdoor spiders. See Mygale.
Tetrapnuemonian (n.) One of the Tetrapneumona.
Tetrapod (n.) An insect characterized by having but four perfect legs, as certain of the butterflies.
Tetrapody (n.) A set of four feet; a measure or distance of four feet.
Tetrapteran (n.) An insect having four wings.
Tetrapterous (a.) Having four wings.
Tetraptote (n.) A noun that has four cases only.
Tetrarch (a.) A Roman governor of the fourth part of a province; hence, any subordinate or dependent prince; also, a petty king or sovereign.
Tetrarch (a.) Four.
Tetrarchate (n.) A tetrarchy.
Tetrarchical (a.) Of or pertaining to a tetrarch or tetrarchy.
Tetrarchies (pl. ) of Tetrarchy
Tetrarchy (n.) The district under a Roman tetrarch; the office or jurisdiction of a tetrarch; a tetrarchate.
Tetraschistic (a.) Characterized by division into four parts.
Tetrasepalous (a.) Having four sepals.
Tetraspaston (n.) A machine in which four pulleys act together.
Tetraspermous (a.) Having four seeds.
Tetraspore (n.) A nonsexual spore, one of a group of four regularly occurring in red seaweeds.
Tetrastich (n.) A stanza, epigram, or poem, consisting of four verses or lines.
Tetrastyle (a.) Having four columns in front; -- said of a temple, portico, or colonnade.
Tetrastyle (n.) A tetrastyle building.
Tetrasyllabic (a.) Alt. of Tetrasyllabical
Tetrasyllabical (a.) Consisting of, or having, four syllables; quadrisyllabic.
Terrasyllable (n.) A word consisting of four syllables; a quadrisyllable.
Tetrathecal (a.) Having four loculaments, or thecae.
Tetrathionate (n.) A salt of tetrathionic acid.
Tetrathionic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a thionic derivative, H/S/O/, of sulphuric acid, obtained as a colorless, odorless liquid.
Tetratomic (a.) Consisting of four atoms; having four atoms in the molecule, as phosphorus and arsenic.
Tetratomic (a.) Having a valence of four; quadrivalent; tetravalent; sometimes, in a specific sense, having four hydroxyl groups, whether acid or basic.
Tetravalence (n.) The quality or state of being tetravalent; quadrivalence.
Tetravalent (a.) Having a valence of four; tetratomic; quadrivalent.
Tetraxile (a.) Having four branches diverging at right angles; -- said of certain spicules of sponges.
Tetrazo- (a.) A combining form (also used adjectively), designating any one of a series of double derivatives of the azo and diazo compounds containing four atoms of nitrogen.
Tetrazone (n.) Any one of a certain series of basic compounds containing a chain of four nitrogen atoms; for example, ethyl tetrazone, (C2H5)2N.N2.N(C2H5)2, a colorless liquid having an odor of leeks.
Tetric (a.) Alt. of Tetrical
Tetrical (a.) Forward; perverse; harsh; sour; rugged.
Tetricity (n.) Crabbedness; perverseness.
Tetricous (a.) Tetric.
Tetrinic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex ketonic acid, C5H6O3, obtained as a white crystalline substance; -- so called because once supposed to contain a peculiar radical of four carbon atoms. Called also acetyl-acrylic acid.
Tetrodon (n.) Any one of numerous species of plectognath fishes belonging to Tetrodon and allied genera. Each jaw is furnished with two large, thick, beaklike, bony teeth.
Tetrodont (a.) Of or pertaining to the tetrodons.
Tetrodont (n.) A tetrodon.
Tetrol (n.) A hypothetical hydrocarbon, C4H4, analogous to benzene; -- so called from the four carbon atoms in the molecule.
Tetrolic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C3H3.CO2H, of the acetylene series, homologous with propiolic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance.
Tetroxide (n.) An oxide having four atoms of oxygen in the molecule; a quadroxide; as, osmium tetroxide, OsO/.
Tetryl (n.) Butyl; -- so called from the four carbon atoms in the molecule.
Tetrylene (n.) Butylene; -- so called from the four carbon atoms in the molecule.
Tetter (n.) A vesicular disease of the skin; herpes. See Herpes.
Tettered (imp. & p. p.) of Tetter
Tettering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tetter
Tetter (v. t.) To affect with tetter.
Tetterous (a.) Having the character of, or pertaining to, tetter.
Tetter-totter (n.) A certain game of children; seesaw; -- called also titter-totter, and titter-cum-totter.
Tetterwort (n.) A plant used as a remedy for tetter, -- in England the calendine, in America the bloodroot.
Tettigonian (n.) Any one of numerous species of Hemiptera belonging to Tettigonia and allied genera; a leaf hopper.
Tettish (a.) Captious; testy.
Tettix (n.) The cicada.
Tettix (n.) A genus of small grasshoppers.
Tetty (a.) Testy; irritable.
Teufit (n.) The lapwing; -- called also teuchit.
Teuk (n.) The redshank.
Teutons (pl. ) of Teuton
Teutones (pl. ) of Teuton
Teuton (n.) One of an ancient German tribe; later, a name applied to any member of the Germanic race in Europe; now used to designate a German, Dutchman, Scandinavian, etc., in distinction from a Celt or one of a Latin race.
Teuton (n.) A member of the Teutonic branch of the Indo-European, or Aryan, family.
Teutonic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Teutons, esp. the ancient Teutons; Germanic.
Teutonic (a.) Of or pertaining to any of the Teutonic languages, or the peoples who speak these languages.
Teutonic (n.) The language of the ancient Germans; the Teutonic languages, collectively.
Teutonicism (n.) A mode of speech peculiar to the Teutons; a Teutonic idiom, phrase, or expression; a Teutonic mode or custom; a Germanism.
Tewed (imp. & p. p.) of Tew
Tewing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tew
Tew (v.) To prepare by beating or working, as leather or hemp; to taw.
Tew (v.) Hence, to beat; to scourge; also, to pull about; to maul; to tease; to vex.
Tew (v. i.) To work hard; to strive; to fuse.
Tew (v. t.) To tow along, as a vessel.
Tew (n.) A rope or chain for towing a boat; also, a cord; a string.
Tewan (n.) A tribe of American Indians including many of the Pueblos of New Mexico and adjacent regions.
Tewed (a.) Fatigued; worn with labor or hardship.
Tewel (n.) A pipe, funnel, or chimney, as for smoke.
Tewel (n.) The tuyere of a furnace.
Tewhit (n.) The lapwing; -- called also teewheep.
Tewtaw (v. t.) To beat; to break, as flax or hemp.
Texas (n.) A structure on the hurricane deck of a steamer, containing the pilot house, officers' cabins, etc.
Text (n.) A discourse or composition on which a note or commentary is written; the original words of an author, in distinction from a paraphrase, annotation, or commentary.
Text (n.) The four Gospels, by way of distinction or eminence.
Text (n.) A verse or passage of Scripture, especially one chosen as the subject of a sermon, or in proof of a doctrine.
Text (n.) Hence, anything chosen as the subject of an argument, literary composition, or the like; topic; theme.
Text (n.) A style of writing in large characters; text-hand also, a kind of type used in printing; as, German text.
Text (v. t.) To write in large characters, as in text hand.
Text-book (n.) A book with wide spaces between the lines, to give room for notes.
Text-book (n.) A volume, as of some classical author, on which a teacher lectures or comments; hence, any manual of instruction; a schoolbook.
Text-hand (n.) A large hand in writing; -- so called because it was the practice to write the text of a book in a large hand and the notes in a smaller hand.
Textile (a.) Pertaining to weaving or to woven fabrics; as, textile arts; woven, capable of being woven; formed by weaving; as, textile fabrics.
Textile (n.) That which is, or may be, woven; a fabric made by weaving.
Textmen (pl. ) of Textman
Textman (n.) One ready in quoting texts.
Textorial (a.) Of or pertaining to weaving.
Textrine (a.) Of or pertaining to weaving, textorial; as, the textrine art.
Textual (a.) Of, pertaining to, or contained in, the text; as, textual criticism; a textual reading.
Textual (a.) Serving for, or depending on, texts.
Textual (a.) Familiar with texts or authorities so as to cite them accurately.
Textualist (n.) A textman; a textuary.
Textually (adv.) In a textual manner; in the text or body of a work; in accordance with the text.
Textuarist (n.) A textuary.
Textuary (a.) Contained in the text; textual.
Textuary (a.) Serving as a text; authoritative.
Textuary (n.) One who is well versed in the Scriptures; a textman.
Textuary (n.) One who adheres strictly or rigidly to the text.
Textuel (a.) Textual.
Textuist (n.) A textualist; a textman.
Textural (a.) Of or pertaining to texture.
Texture (n.) The act or art of weaving.
Texture (n.) That which woven; a woven fabric; a web.
Texture (n.) The disposition or connection of threads, filaments, or other slender bodies, interwoven; as, the texture of cloth or of a spider's web.
Texture (n.) The disposition of the several parts of any body in connection with each other, or the manner in which the constituent parts are united; structure; as, the texture of earthy substances or minerals; the texture of a plant or a bone; the texture of paper; a loose or compact texture.
Texture (n.) A tissue. See Tissue.
Textured (imp. & p. p.) of Texture
Texturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Texture
Texture (v. t.) To form a texture of or with; to interweave.
Textury (n.) The art or process of weaving; texture.
Teyne (n.) A thin plate of metal.
Th () In Old English, the article the, when the following word began with a vowel, was often written with elision as if a part of the word. Thus in Chaucer, the forms thabsence, tharray, thegle, thend, thingot, etc., are found for the absence, the array, the eagle, the end, etc.
Thack () Alt. of Thacker
Thacker () See Thatch, Thatcher.
Thak (v. t.) To thwack.
Thalamencephalon (n.) The segment of the brain next in front of the midbrain, including the thalami, pineal gland, and pituitary body; the diencephalon; the interbrain.
Thalamic (a.) Of or pertaining to a thalamus or to thalami.
Thalamifloral (a.) Alt. of Thalamiflorous
Thalamiflorous (a.) Bearing the stamens directly on the receptacle; -- said of a subclass of polypetalous dicotyledonous plants in the system of De Candolle.
Thalamocoele (n.) The cavity or ventricle of the thalamencephalon; the third ventricle.
Thalamophora (n. pl.) Same as Foraminifera.
Thalami (pl. ) of Thalamus
Thalamus (n.) A mass of nervous matter on either side of the third ventricle of the brain; -- called also optic thalamus.
Thalamus (n.) Same as Thallus.
Thalamus (n.) The receptacle of a flower; a torus.
Thalassian (n.) Any sea tortoise.
Thalassic (a.) Of or pertaining to the sea; -- sometimes applied to rocks formed from sediments deposited upon the sea bottom.
Thalassinian (n.) Any species of Thalaassinidae, a family of burrowing macrurous Crustacea, having a long and soft abdomen.
Thalassography (n.) The study or science of the life of marine organisms.
Thaler (n.) A German silver coin worth about three shillings sterling, or about 73 cents.
Thalia (n.) That one of the nine Muses who presided over comedy.
Thalia (n.) One of the three Graces.
Thalia (n.) One of the Nereids.
Thaliacea (n. pl.) A division of Tunicata comprising the free-swimming species, such as Salpa and Doliolum.
Thalian (a.) Of or pertaining to Thalia; hence, of or pertaining to comedy; comic.
Thallate (n.) A salt of a hypothetical thallic acid.
Thallene (n.) A hydrocarbon obtained from coal-tar residues, and remarkable for its intense yellowish green fluorescence.
Thallic (a.) Of or pertaining to thallium; derived from, or containing, thallium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as contrasted with the thallous compounds; as, thallic oxide.
Thalline (a.) Consisting of a thallus.
Thalline (n.) An artificial alkaloid of the quinoline series, obtained as a white crystalline substance, C10H13NO, whose salts are valuable as antipyretics; -- so called from the green color produced in its solution by certain oxidizing agents.
Thallious (a.) See Thallous.
Thallium (n.) A rare metallic element of the aluminium group found in some minerals, as certain pyrites, and also in the lead-chamber deposit in the manufacture of sulphuric acid. It is isolated as a heavy, soft, bluish white metal, easily oxidized in moist air, but preserved by keeping under water. Symbol Tl. Atomic weight 203.7.
Thallogen (n.) One of a large class or division of the vegetable kingdom, which includes those flowerless plants, such as fungi, algae, and lichens, that consist of a thallus only, composed of cellular tissue, or of a congeries of cells, or even of separate cells, and never show a distinction into root, stem, and leaf.
Thalloid (a.) Resembling, or consisting of, thallus.
Thallophyte (n.) Same as Thallogen.
Thallous (a.) Of or pertaining to thallium; derived from, or containing, thallium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with the thallic compounds.
Thalli (pl. ) of Thallus
Thallus (n.) A solid mass of cellular tissue, consisting of one or more layers, usually in the form of a flat stratum or expansion, but sometimes erect or pendulous, and elongated and branching, and forming the substance of the thallogens.
Thammuz (n.) Alt. of Tammuz
Tammuz (n.) A deity among the ancient Syrians, in honor of whom the Hebrew idolatresses held an annual lamentation. This deity has been conjectured to be the same with the Phoenician Adon, or Adonis.
Tammuz (n.) The fourth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, -- supposed to correspond nearly with our month of July.
Thamnophile (n.) A bush shrike.
Thamyn (n.) An Asiatic deer (Rucervus Eldi) resembling the swamp deer; -- called also Eld's deer.
Than (conj.) A particle expressing comparison, used after certain adjectives and adverbs which express comparison or diversity, as more, better, other, otherwise, and the like. It is usually followed by the object compared in the nominative case. Sometimes, however, the object compared is placed in the objective case, and than is then considered by some grammarians as a preposition. Sometimes the object is expressed in a sentence, usually introduced by that; as, I would rather suffer than that you should want.
Than (adv.) Then. See Then.
Thanage (n.) The district in which a thane anciently had jurisdiction; thanedom.
Thanatoid (a.) Deathlike; resembling death.
Thanatology (n.) A description, or the doctrine, of death.
Thanatopsis (n.) A view of death; a meditation on the subject of death.
Thane (n.) A dignitary under the Anglo-Saxons and Danes in England. Of these there were two orders, the king's thanes, who attended the kings in their courts and held lands immediately of them, and the ordinary thanes, who were lords of manors and who had particular jurisdiction within their limits. After the Conquest, this title was disused, and baron took its place.
Thanedom (n.) The property or jurisdiction of a thane; thanage.
Thanehood (n.) The character or dignity of a thane; also, thanes, collectively.
Thaneship (n.) The state or dignity of a thane; thanehood; also, the seignioralty of a thane.
Thanks (pl. ) of Thank
Thank (n.) A expression of gratitude; an acknowledgment expressive of a sense of favor or kindness received; obligation, claim, or desert, or gratitude; -- now generally used in the plural.
Thanked (imp. & p. p.) of Thank
Thanking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thank
Thank (n.) To express gratitude to (anyone) for a favor; to make acknowledgments to (anyone) for kindness bestowed; -- used also ironically for blame.
Thankful (a.) Obtaining or deserving thanks; thankworthy.
Thankful (a.) Impressed with a sense of kindness received, and ready to acknowledge it; grateful.
Thankless (a.) Not acknowledging favors; not expressing thankfulness; unthankful; ungrateful.
Thankless (a.) Not obtaining or deserving thanks; unacceptable; as, a thankless task.
Thankly (adv.) Thankfully.
Thanksgive (v. t.) To give or dedicate in token of thanks.
Thanksgiver (n.) One who gives thanks, or acknowledges a kindness.
Thanksgiving (n.) The act of rending thanks, or expressing gratitude for favors or mercies.
Thanksgiving (n.) A public acknowledgment or celebration of divine goodness; also, a day set apart for religious services, specially to acknowledge the goodness of God, either in any remarkable deliverance from calamities or danger, or in the ordinary dispensation of his bounties.
Thankworthiness (n.) The quality or state of being thankworthy.
Thankworthy (a.) Deserving thanks; worthy of gratitude; mreitorious.
Thar (n.) A goatlike animal (Capra Jemlaica) native of the Himalayas. It has small, flattened horns, curved directly backward. The hair of the neck, shoulders, and chest of the male is very long, reaching to the knees. Called also serow, and imo.
Thar (v. impersonal, pres.) It needs; need.
Tharms (n. pl.) Twisted guts.
Tharos (n.) A small American butterfly (Phycoides tharos) having the upper surface of the wings variegated with orange and black, the outer margins black with small white crescents; -- called also pearl crescent.
That (pron., a., conj., & adv.) As a demonstrative pronoun (pl. Those), that usually points out, or refers to, a person or thing previously mentioned, or supposed to be understood. That, as a demonstrative, may precede the noun to which it refers; as, that which he has said is true; those in the basket are good apples.
That (pron., a., conj., & adv.) As an adjective, that has the same demonstrative force as the pronoun, but is followed by a noun.
That (pron., a., conj., & adv.) As a relative pronoun, that is equivalent to who or which, serving to point out, and make definite, a person or thing spoken of, or alluded to, before, and may be either singular or plural.
That (pron., a., conj., & adv.) As a conjunction, that retains much of its force as a demonstrative pronoun.
That (pron., a., conj., & adv.) To introduce a clause employed as the object of the preceding verb, or as the subject or predicate nominative of a verb.
That (pron., a., conj., & adv.) To introduce, a reason or cause; -- equivalent to for that, in that, for the reason that, because.
That (pron., a., conj., & adv.) To introduce a purpose; -- usually followed by may, or might, and frequently preceded by so, in order, to the end, etc.
That (pron., a., conj., & adv.) To introduce a consequence, result, or effect; -- usually preceded by so or such, sometimes by that.
That (pron., a., conj., & adv.) In an elliptical sentence to introduce a dependent sentence expressing a wish, or a cause of surprise, indignation, or the like.
That (pron., a., conj., & adv.) As adverb: To such a degree; so; as, he was that frightened he could say nothing.
Thatch (n.) Straw, rushes, or the like, used for making or covering the roofs of buildings, or of stacks of hay or grain.
Thatch (n.) A name in the West Indies for several kinds of palm, the leaves of which are used for thatching.
Thatched (imp. & p. p.) of Thatch
Thatching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thatch
Thatch (n.) To cover with, or with a roof of, straw, reeds, or some similar substance; as, to thatch a roof, a stable, or a stack of grain.
Thatcher (n.) One who thatches.
Thatching (n.) The act or art of covering buildings with thatch; so as to keep out rain, snow, etc.
Thatching (n.) The materials used for this purpose; thatch.
Thaught (n.) See Thwart.
Thaumatolatry (n.) Worship or undue admiration of wonderful or miraculous things.
Thaumatrope (n.) An optical instrument or toy for showing the presistence of an impression upon the eyes after the luminous object is withdrawn.
Thaumaturge (n.) A magician; a wonder worker.
Thaumaturgic (a.) Alt. of Thaumaturgical
Thaumaturgical (a.) Of or pertaining to thaumaturgy; magical; wonderful.
Thaumaturgics (n.) Feats of legerdemain, or magical performances.
Thaumaturgist (n.) One who deals in wonders, or believes in them; a wonder worker.
Thaumaturgus (n.) A miracle worker; -- a title given by the Roman Catholics to some saints.
Thaumaturgy (n.) The act or art of performing something wonderful; magic; legerdemain.
Thave (n.) Same as Theave.
Thawed (imp. & p. p.) of Thaw
Thawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thaw
Thaw (v. i.) To melt, dissolve, or become fluid; to soften; -- said of that which is frozen; as, the ice thaws.
Thaw (v. i.) To become so warm as to melt ice and snow; -- said in reference to the weather, and used impersonally.
Thaw (v. i.) Fig.: To grow gentle or genial.
Thaw (v. t.) To cause (frozen things, as earth, snow, ice) to melt, soften, or dissolve.
Thaw (n.) The melting of ice, snow, or other congealed matter; the resolution of ice, or the like, into the state of a fluid; liquefaction by heat of anything congealed by frost; also, a warmth of weather sufficient to melt that which is congealed.
Thawy (a.) Liquefying by heat after having been frozen; thawing; melting.
The (v. i.) See Thee.
The (definite article.) A word placed before nouns to limit or individualize their meaning.
The (adv.) By that; by how much; by so much; on that account; -- used before comparatives; as, the longer we continue in sin, the more difficult it is to reform.
Thea (n.) A genus of plants found in China and Japan; the tea plant.
Theandric (a.) Relating to, or existing by, the union of divine and human operation in Christ, or the joint agency of the divine and human nature.
Theanthropic (a.) Alt. of Theanthropical
Theanthropical (a.) Partaking of, or combining, both divinity and humanity.
Theanthropism (n.) A state of being God and man.
Theanthropism (n.) The ascription of human atributes to the Deity, or to a polytheistic deity; anthropomorphism.
Theanthropist (n.) One who advocates, or believes in, theanthropism.
Theanthropy (n.) Theanthropism.
Thearchic (a.) Divinely sovereign or supreme.
Thearchy (n.) Government by God; divine sovereignty; theocracy.
Theater (n.) Alt. of Theatre
Theatre (n.) An edifice in which dramatic performances or spectacles are exhibited for the amusement of spectators; anciently uncovered, except the stage, but in modern times roofed.
Theatre (n.) Any room adapted to the exhibition of any performances before an assembly, as public lectures, scholastic exercises, anatomical demonstrations, surgical operations, etc.
Theatre (n.) That which resembles a theater in form, use, or the like; a place rising by steps or gradations, like the seats of a theater.
Theatre (n.) A sphere or scheme of operation.
Theatre (n.) A place or region where great events are enacted; as, the theater of war.
Theatin (n.) Alt. of Theatine
Theatine (n.) One of an order of Italian monks, established in 1524, expressly to oppose Reformation, and to raise the tone of piety among Roman Catholics. They hold no property, nor do they beg, but depend on what Providence sends. Their chief employment is preaching and giving religious instruction.
Theatine (n.) One of an order of nuns founded by Ursula Benincasa, who died in 1618.
Theatral (a.) Of or pertaining to a theater; theatrical.
Theatric (a.) Theatrical.
Theatrical (a.) Of or pertaining to a theater, or to the scenic representations; resembling the manner of dramatic performers; histrionic; hence, artificial; as, theatrical performances; theatrical gestures.
Theatricals (n. pl.) Dramatic performances; especially, those produced by amateurs.
Theave (n.) A ewe lamb of the first year; also, a sheep three years old.
Thebaic (a.) Of or pertaining to Thebes in Egypt; specifically, designating a version of the Bible preserved by the Copts, and esteemed of great value by biblical scholars. This version is also called the Sahidic version.
Thebaid (n.) A Latin epic poem by Statius about Thebes in Boeotia.
Thebaine (n.) A poisonous alkaloid, C19H21NO3, found in opium in small quantities, having a sharp, astringent taste, and a tetanic action resembling that of strychnine.
Theban (a.) Of or pertaining to Thebes.
Theban (n.) A native or inhabitant of Thebes; also, a wise man.
Thecae (pl. ) of Theca
Theca (n.) A sheath; a case; as, the theca, or cell, of an anther; the theca, or spore case, of a fungus; the theca of the spinal cord.
Theca (n.) The chitinous cup which protects the hydranths of certain hydroids.
Theca (n.) The more or less cuplike calicle of a coral.
Theca (n.) The wall forming a calicle of a coral.
Thecal (a.) Of or pertaining to a theca; as, a thecal abscess.
Thecaphore (n.) A surface or organ bearing a theca, or covered with thecae.
Thecaphore (n.) See Basigynium.
Thecasporous (a.) Having the spores in thecae, or cases.
Thecata (n. pl.) Same as Thecophora.
Thecla (n.) Any one of many species of small delicately colored butterflies belonging to Thecla and allied genera; -- called also hairstreak, and elfin.
Thecodactyl (n.) Any one of a group of lizards of the Gecko tribe, having the toes broad, and furnished with a groove in which the claws can be concealed.
Thecodont (a.) Having the teeth inserted in sockets in the alveoli of the jaws.
Thecodont (a.) Of or pertaining to the thecodonts.
Thecodont (n.) One of the Thecodontia.
Thecodontia (n. pl.) A group of fossil saurians having biconcave vertebrae and the teeth implanted in sockets.
Thecophora (n. pl.) A division of hydroids comprising those which have the hydranths in thecae and the gonophores in capsules. The campanularians and sertularians are examples. Called also Thecata. See Illust. under Hydroidea.
Thecosomata (n. pl.) An order of Pteropoda comprising those species which have a shell. See Pteropoda.
Thedom (n.) Success; fortune; luck; chance.
Thee (a.) To thrive; to prosper.
Thee (pron.) The objective case of thou. See Thou.
Theft (n.) The act of stealing; specifically, the felonious taking and removing of personal property, with an intent to deprive the rightful owner of the same; larceny.
Theft (n.) The thing stolen.
Theftbote (n.) The receiving of a man's goods again from a thief, or a compensation for them, by way of composition, with the intent that the thief shall escape punishment.
Thegn (n.) Thane. See Thane.
Thegnhood (n.) Thanehood.
Theiform (a.) Having the form of tea.
Theine (n.) See Caffeine. Called also theina.
Their (pron. & a.) The possessive case of the personal pronoun they; as, their houses; their country.
Theism (n.) The belief or acknowledgment of the existence of a God, as opposed to atheism, pantheism, or polytheism.
Theist (n.) One who believes in the existence of a God; especially, one who believes in a personal God; -- opposed to atheist.
Theistic (a.) Alt. of Theistical
Theistical (a.) Of or pertaining to theism, or a theist; according to the doctrine of theists.
Thelphusian (n.) One of a tribe of fresh-water crabs which live in or on the banks of rivers in tropical countries.
Thelytokous (a.) Producing females only; -- said of certain female insects.
Them (pron.) The objective case of they. See They.
Thematic (a.) Of or pertaining to the theme of a word. See Theme, n., 4.
Thematic (n.) Of or pertaining to a theme, or subject.
Theme (n.) A subject or topic on which a person writes or speaks; a proposition for discussion or argument; a text.
Theme (n.) Discourse on a certain subject.
Theme (n.) A composition or essay required of a pupil.
Theme (n.) A noun or verb, not modified by inflections; also, that part of a noun or verb which remains unchanged (except by euphonic variations) in declension or conjugation; stem.
Theme (n.) That by means of which a thing is done; means; instrument.
Theme (n.) The leading subject of a composition or a movement.
Themis (n.) The goddess of law and order; the patroness of existing rights.
Themselves (pron.) The plural of himself, herself, and itself. See Himself, Herself, Itself.
Then (adv.) At that time (referring to a time specified, either past or future).
Then (adv.) Soon afterward, or immediately; next; afterward.
Then (adv.) At another time; later; again.
Then (conj.) Than.
Then (conj.) In that case; in consequence; as a consequence; therefore; for this reason.
Thenadays (adv.) At that time; then; in those days; -- correlative to nowadays.
Thenal (a.) Alt. of Thenar
Thenar (a.) Of or pertaining to the thenar; corresponding to thenar; palmar.
Thenar (n.) The palm of the hand.
Thenar (n.) The prominence of the palm above the base of the thumb; the thenar eminence; the ball of the thumb. Sometimes applied to the corresponding part of the foot.
Thenardite (n.) Anhydrous sodium sulphate, a mineral of a white or brown color and vitreous luster.
Thence (adv.) From that place.
Thence (adv.) From that time; thenceforth; thereafter.
Thence (adv.) For that reason; therefore.
Thence (adv.) Not there; elsewhere; absent.
Thenceforth (adv.) From that time; thereafter.
Thenceforward (adv.) From that time onward; thenceforth.
Thencefrom (adv.) From that place.
Theobroma (n.) A genus of small trees. See Cacao.
Theobromic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid extracted from cacao butter (from the Theobroma Cacao), peanut oil (from Arachis hypogaea), etc., as a white waxy crystalline substance.
Theobromine (n.) An alkaloidal ureide, C7H8N4O2, homologous with and resembling caffeine, produced artificially, and also extracted from cacao and chocolate (from Theobroma Cacao) as a bitter white crystalline substance; -- called also dimethyl xanthine.
Theochristic (a.) Anointed by God.
Theocracy (n.) Government of a state by the immediate direction or administration of God; hence, the exercise of political authority by priests as representing the Deity.
Theocracy (n.) The state thus governed, as the Hebrew commonwealth before it became a kingdom.
Theocrasy (n.) A mixture of the worship of different gods, as of Jehovah and idols.
Theocrasy (n.) An intimate union of the soul with God in contemplation, -- an ideal of the Neoplatonists and of some Oriental mystics.
Theocrat (n.) One who lives under a theocratic form of government; one who in civil affairs conforms to divine law.
Theocratic (a.) Alt. of Theocratical
Theocratical (a.) Of or pertaining to a theocracy; administred by the immediate direction of God; as, the theocratical state of the Israelites.
Theodicy (n.) A vindication of the justice of God in ordaining or permitting natural and moral evil.
Theodicy (n.) That department of philosophy which treats of the being, perfections, and government of God, and the immortality of the soul.
Theodolite (n.) An instrument used, especially in trigonometrical surveying, for the accurate measurement of horizontal angles, and also usually of vertical angles. It is variously constructed.
Theodolitic (a.) Of or pertaining to a theodolite; made by means of a theodolite; as, theodolitic observations.
Theogonic (a.) Of or relating to theogony.
Theogonism (n.) Theogony.
Theogonist (n.) A writer on theogony.
Theogony (n.) The generation or genealogy of the gods; that branch of heathen theology which deals with the origin and descent of the deities; also, a poem treating of such genealogies; as, the Theogony of Hesiod.
Theologaster (n.) A pretender or quack in theology.
Theologer (n.) A theologian.
Theologian (n.) A person well versed in theology; a professor of theology or divinity; a divine.
Theologic (a.) Theological.
Theological (a.) Of or pertaining to theology, or the science of God and of divine things; as, a theological treatise.
Theologics (n.) Theology.
Theologist (n.) A theologian.
Theologized (imp. & p. p.) of Theologize
Theologizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Theologize
Theologize (v. t.) To render theological; to apply to divinity; to reduce to a system of theology.
Theologize (v. i.) To frame a system of theology; to theorize or speculate upon theological subjects.
Theologizer (n.) One who theologizes; a theologian.
Theologue (n.) A theologian.
Theologue (n.) A student in a theological seminary.
Theologies (pl. ) of Theology
Theology (n.) The science of God or of religion; the science which treats of the existence, character, and attributes of God, his laws and government, the doctrines we are to believe, and the duties we are to practice; divinity; (as more commonly understood) "the knowledge derivable from the Scriptures, the systematic exhibition of revealed truth, the science of Christian faith and life."
Theomachist (n.) One who fights against the gods; one who resists God of the divine will.
Theomachy (n.) A fighting against the gods, as the battle of the gaints with the gods.
Theomachy (n.) A battle or strife among the gods.
Theomachy (n.) Opposition to God or the divine will.
Theomancy (n.) A kind of divination drawn from the responses of oracles among heathen nations.
Theopathetic (a.) Alt. of Theopathic
Theopathic (a.) Of or pertaining to a theopathy.
Theopathy (n.) Capacity for religious affections or worship.
Theophanic (a.) Of or pertaining to a theopany; appearing to man, as a god.
-nies (pl. ) of Theophany
Theophany (n.) A manifestation of God to man by actual appearance, usually as an incarnation.
Theophilanthropic (a.) Pertaining to theophilanthropy or the theophilanthropists.
Theophilanthropism (n.) The doctrine of the theophilanthropists; theophilanthropy.
Theophilanthropist (n.) A member of a deistical society established at Paris during the French revolution.
Theophilanthropy (n.) Theophilanthropism.
Theophilosophic (a.) Combining theism and philosophy, or pertaining to the combination of theism and philosophy.
Theopneusted (a.) Divinely inspired; theopneustic.
Theopneustic (a.) Given by the inspiration of the Spirit of God.
Theopneusty (n.) Divine inspiration; the supernatural influence of the Divine Spirit in qualifying men to receive and communicate revealed truth.
Theorbist (n.) One who plays on a theorbo.
Theorbo (n.) An instrument made like large lute, but having two necks, with two sets of pegs, the lower set holding the strings governed by frets, while to the upper set were attached the long bass strings used as open notes.
Theorem (n.) That which is considered and established as a principle; hence, sometimes, a rule.
Theorem (n.) A statement of a principle to be demonstrated.
Theorem (v. t.) To formulate into a theorem.
Theorematic (a.) Alt. of Theorematical
Theorematical (a.) Of or pertaining to a theorem or theorems; comprised in a theorem; consisting of theorems.
Theorematist (n.) One who constructs theorems.
Theoremic (a.) Theorematic.
Theoretic (a.) Alt. of Theoretical
Theoretical (a.) Pertaining to theory; depending on, or confined to, theory or speculation; speculative; terminating in theory or speculation: not practical; as, theoretical learning; theoretic sciences.
Theoretics (n.) The speculative part of a science; speculation.
Theoric (a.) Of or pertaining to the theorica.
Theoric (a.) Relating to, or skilled in, theory; theoretically skilled.
Theoric (n.) Speculation; theory.
Theorica (n. pl.) Public moneys expended at Athens on festivals, sacrifices, and public entertainments (especially theatrical performances), and in gifts to the people; -- also called theoric fund.
Theorical (a.) Theoretic.
Theorically (adv.) In a theoretic manner.
Theorist (n.) One who forms theories; one given to theory and speculation; a speculatist.
Theorization (n.) The act or product of theorizing; the formation of a theory or theories; speculation.
Theorized (imp. & p. p.) of Theorize
Theorizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Theorize
Theorize (v. i.) To form a theory or theories; to form opinions solely by theory; to speculate.
Theorizer (n.) One who theorizes or speculates; a theorist.
Theories (pl. ) of Theory
Theory (n.) A doctrine, or scheme of things, which terminates in speculation or contemplation, without a view to practice; hypothesis; speculation.
Theory (n.) An exposition of the general or abstract principles of any science; as, the theory of music.
Theory (n.) The science, as distinguished from the art; as, the theory and practice of medicine.
Theory (n.) The philosophical explanation of phenomena, either physical or moral; as, Lavoisier's theory of combustion; Adam Smith's theory of moral sentiments.
Theosoph (n.) Alt. of Theosopher
Theosopher (n.) A theosophist.
Theosophic (a.) Alt. of Theosophical
Theosophical (a.) Of or pertaining to theosophy.
Theosophism (n.) Belief in theosophy.
Theosophist (n.) One addicted to theosophy.
Theosophistical (a.) Of or pertaining to theosophy; theosophical.
Theosophized (imp. & p. p.) of Theosophize
Theosophizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Theosophize
Theosophize (v. i.) To practice theosophy.
Theosophy (n.) Any system of philosophy or mysticism which proposes to attain intercourse with God and superior spirits, and consequent superhuman knowledge, by physical processes, as by the theurgic operations of some ancient Platonists, or by the chemical processes of the German fire philosophers; also, a direct, as distinguished from a revealed, knowledge of God, supposed to be attained by extraordinary illumination; especially, a direct insight into the processes of the divine mind, and the interior relations of the divine nature.
Therapeutae (n. pl.) A name given to certain ascetics said to have anciently dwelt in the neighborhood of Alexandria. They are described in a work attributed to Philo, the genuineness and credibility of which are now much discredited.
Therapeutic (a.) Alt. of Therapeutical
Therapeutical (a.) Of or pertaining to the healing art; concerned in discovering and applying remedies for diseases; curative.
Therapeutic (n.) One of the Therapeutae.
Therapeutics (n.) That part of medical science which treats of the discovery and application of remedies for diseases.
Therapeutist (n.) One versed in therapeutics, or the discovery and application of remedies.
Therapy (n.) Therapeutics.
There (pron.) In or at that place.
There (pron.) In that matter, relation, etc.; at that point, stage, etc., regarded as a distinct place; as, he did not stop there, but continued his speech.
There (pron.) To or into that place; thither.
Thereabout (adv.) Alt. of Thereabouts
Thereabouts (adv.) Near that place.
Thereabouts (adv.) Near that number, degree, or quantity; nearly; as, ten men, or thereabouts.
Thereabouts (adv.) Concerning that; about that.
Thereafter (adv.) After that; afterward.
Thereafter (adv.) According to that; accordingly.
Thereafter (adv.) Of that sort.
Thereagain (adv.) In opposition; against one's course.
There-anent (adv.) Concerning that.
Thereat (adv.) At that place; there.
Thereat (adv.) At that occurrence or event; on that account.
Therebefore (adv.) Alt. of Therebiforn
Therebiforn (adv.) Before that time; beforehand.
Thereby (adv.) By that; by that means; in consequence of that.
Thereby (adv.) Annexed to that.
Thereby (adv.) Thereabout; -- said of place, number, etc.
Therefor (adv.) For that, or this; for it.
Therefore (adv.) For that or this reason, referring to something previously stated; for that.
Therefore (adv.) Consequently; by consequence.
Therefrom (adv.) From this or that.
Therein (adv.) In that or this place, time, or thing; in that particular or respect.
Thereinto (adv.) Into that or this, or into that place.
Thereof (adv.) Of that or this.
Thereology (n.) Therapeutios.
Thereon (adv.) On that or this.
Thereout (adv.) Out of that or this.
Thereout (adv.) On the outside; out of doors.
Thereto (adv.) To that or this.
Thereto (adv.) Besides; moreover.
Theretofore (adv.) Up to that time; before then; -- correlative with heretofore.
Thereunder (adv.) Under that or this.
Thereunto (adv.) Unto that or this; thereto; besides.
Thereupon (adv.) Upon that or this; thereon.
Thereupon (adv.) On account, or in consequence, of that; therefore.
Thereupon (adv.) Immediately; at once; without delay.
Therewhile (adv.) At that time; at the same time.
Therewith (adv.) With that or this.
Therewith (adv.) In addition; besides; moreover.
Therewith (adv.) At the same time; forthwith.
Therewithal (adv.) Over and above; besides; moreover.
Therewithal (adv.) With that or this; therewith; at the same time.
Therf (a.) Not fermented; unleavened; -- said of bread, loaves, etc.
Theriac (n.) Alt. of Theriaca
Theriaca (n.) An ancient composition esteemed efficacious against the effects of poison; especially, a certain compound of sixty-four drugs, prepared, pulverized, and reduced by means of honey to an electuary; -- called also theriaca Andromachi, and Venice treacle.
Theriaca (n.) Treacle; molasses.
Theriac (a.) Alt. of Theriacal
Theriacal (a.) Of or pertaining to theriac; medicinal.
Therial (a.) Theriac.
Theriodont (n.) One of the Theriodontia. Used also adjectively.
Theriodonta (n. pl.) Same as Theriodontia.
Theriodontia (n. pl.) An extinct order of reptiles found in the Permian and Triassic formations in South Africa. In some respects they resembled carnivorous mammals. Called also Theromorpha.
Theriotomy (n.) Zootomy.
Thermae (n. pl.) Springs or baths of warm or hot water.
Thermal (a.) Of or pertaining to heat; warm; hot; as, the thermal unit; thermal waters.
Thermally (adv.) In a thermal manner.
Thermetograph (n.) A self-registering thermometer, especially one that registers the maximum and minimum during long periods.
Thermic (a.) Of or pertaining to heat; due to heat; thermal; as, thermic lines.
Thermidor (n.) The eleventh month of the French republican calendar, -- commencing July 19, and ending August 17. See the Note under Vendemiaire.
Thermifugine (n.) An artificial alkaloid of complex composition, resembling thalline and used as an antipyretic, -- whence its name.
Thermo- () A combining form from Gr. qe`rmh heat, qermo`s hot, warm; as in thermochemistry, thermodynamic.
Thermobarometer (n.) An instrument for determining altitudes by the boiling point of water.
Thermobattery (n.) A thermoelectric battery; a thermopile.
Thermocautery (n.) Cautery by the application of heat.
Thermochemic (a.) Alt. of Thermochemical
Thermochemical (a.) Of or pertaining to thermochemistry; obtained by, or employed in, thermochemistry.
Thermochemistry (n.) That branch of chemical science which includes the investigation of the various relations existing between chemical action and that manifestation of force termed heat, or the determination of the heat evolved by, or employed in, chemical actions.
Thermochrosy (n.) The property possessed by heat of being composed, like light, of rays of different degrees of refrangibility, which are unequal in rate or degree of transmission through diathermic substances.
Thermocurrent (n.) A current, as of electricity, developed, or set in motion, by the action of heat.
Thermodynamic (a.) Relating to thermodynamics; caused or operated by force due to the application of heat.
Thermodynamics (n.) The science which treats of the mechanical action or relations of heat.
Thermoelectric (a.) Pertaining to thermoelectricity; as, thermoelectric currents.
Thermoelectricity (n.) Electricity developed in the action of heat. See the Note under Electricity.
Thermoelectrometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the strength of an electric current in the heat which it produces, or for determining the heat developed by such a current.
Thermogen (n.) Caloric; heat; regarded as a material but imponderable substance.
Thermogenic (a.) Relating to heat, or to the production of heat; producing heat; thermogenous; as, the thermogenic tissues.
Thermogenous (a.) Producing heat; thermogenic.
Thermograph (n.) An instrument for automatically recording indications of the variation of temperature.
Thermology (n.) A discourse on, or an account of, heat.
Thermolysis (n.) The resolution of a compound into parts by heat; dissociation by heat.
Thermolyze (v. t.) To subject to thermolysis; to dissociate by heat.
Thermomagnetism (n.) Magnetism as affected or caused by the action of heat; the relation of heat to magnetism.
Thermometer (n.) An instrument for measuring temperature, founded on the principle that changes of temperature in bodies are accompained by proportional changes in their volumes or dimensions.
Thermometric (a.) Alt. of Thermometrical
Thermometrical (a.) Of or pertaining to a thermometer; as, the thermometrical scale or tube.
Thermometrical (a.) Made, or ascertained, by means of a thermometer; as, thermometrical observations.
Thermometrically (adv.) In a thermometrical manner; by means of a thermometer.
Thermometrograph (n.) An instrument for recording graphically the variations of temperature, or the indications of a thermometer.
Thermometry (n.) The estimation of temperature by the use of a thermometric apparatus.
Thermomultiplier (n.) Same as Thermopile.
Thermopile (n.) An instrument of extreme sensibility, used to determine slight differences and degrees of heat. It is composed of alternate bars of antimony and bismuth, or any two metals having different capacities for the conduction of heat, connected with an astatic galvanometer, which is very sensibly affected by the electric current induced in the system of bars when exposed even to the feeblest degrees of heat.
Thermoscope (n.) An instrument for indicating changes of temperature without indicating the degree of heat by which it is affected; especially, an instrument contrived by Count Rumford which, as modified by Professor Leslie, was afterward called the differential thermometer.
Thermoscopic (a.) Of or pertaining to the thermoscope; made by means of the thermoscope; as, thermoscopic observations.
Thermostat (n.) A self-acting apparatus for regulating temperature by the unequal expansion of different metals, liquids, or gases by heat, as in opening or closing the damper of a stove, or the like, as the heat becomes greater or less than is desired.
Thermostatic (a.) Of or pertaining to the thermostat; made or effected by means of the thermostat.
Thermosystaltic (a.) Influenced in its contraction by heat or cold; -- said of a muscle.
Thermotaxic (a.) Pertaining to, or connected with, the regulation of temperature in the animal body; as, the thermotaxic nervous system.
Thermotension (n.) A process of increasing the strength of wrought iron by heating it to a determinate temperature, and giving to it, while in that state, a mechanical strain or tension in the direction in which the strength is afterward to be exerted.
Thermotic (a.) Alt. of Thermotical
Thermotical (a.) Of or pertaining to heat; produced by heat; as, thermotical phenomena.
Thermotics (n.) The science of heat.
Thermotropic (a.) Manifesting thermotropism.
Thermotropism (n.) The phenomenon of turning towards a source of warmth, seen in the growing parts of some plants.
Thermotype (n.) A picture (as of a slice of wood) obtained by first wetting the object slightly with hydrochloric or dilute sulphuric acid, then taking an impression with a press, and next strongly heating this impression.
Thermotypy (n.) The art or process of obtaining thermotypes.
Thermovoltaic (a.) Of or relating to heat and electricity; especially, relating to thermal effects produced by voltaic action.
Theromorpha (n. pl.) See Theriodonta.
Theropoda (n. pl.) An order of carnivorous dinosaurs in which the feet are less birdlike, and hence more like those of an ordinary quadruped, than in the Ornithopoda. It includes the rapacious genera Megalosaurus, Creosaurus, and their allies.
Thesauri (pl. ) of Thesaurus
Thesaurus (n.) A treasury or storehouse; hence, a repository, especially of knowledge; -- often applied to a comprehensive work, like a dictionary or cyclopedia.
These (pron.) The plural of this. See This.
Thesicle (n.) A little or subordinate thesis; a proposition.
Theses (pl. ) of Thesis
Thesis (n.) A position or proposition which a person advances and offers to maintain, or which is actually maintained by argument.
Thesis (n.) Hence, an essay or dissertation written upon specific or definite theme; especially, an essay presented by a candidate for a diploma or degree.
Thesis (n.) An affirmation, or distinction from a supposition or hypothesis.
Thesis (n.) The accented part of the measure, expressed by the downward beat; -- the opposite of arsis.
Thesis (n.) The depression of the voice in pronouncing the syllables of a word.
Thesis (n.) The part of the foot upon which such a depression falls.
Thesmothete (n.) A lawgiver; a legislator; one of the six junior archons at Athens.
Thespian (a.) Of or pertaining to Thespis; hence, relating to the drama; dramatic; as, the Thespian art.
Thespian (n.) An actor.
Thessalian (a.) Of or pertaining to Thessaly in Greece.
Thessalian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Thessaly.
Thessalonian (a.) Of or pertaining to Thessalonica, a city of Macedonia.
Thessalonian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Thessalonica.
Theta (n.) A letter of the Greek alphabet corresponding to th in English; -- sometimes called the unlucky letter, from being used by the judges on their ballots in passing condemnation on a prisoner, it being the first letter of the Greek qa`natos, death.
Thetical (a.) Laid down; absolute or positive, as a law.
Thetine (n.) Any one of a series of complex basic sulphur compounds analogous to the sulphines.
Theurgic (a.) Alt. of Theurgical
Theurgical (a.) Of or pertaining to theurgy; magical.
Theurgist (n.) One who pretends to, or is addicted to, theurgy.
Theurgy (n.) A divine work; a miracle; hence, magic; sorcery.
Theurgy (n.) A kind of magical science or art developed in Alexandria among the Neoplatonists, and supposed to enable man to influence the will of the gods by means of purification and other sacramental rites.
Theurgy (n.) In later or modern magic, that species of magic in which effects are claimed to be produced by supernatural agency, in distinction from natural magic.
Thew (n.) Manner; custom; habit; form of behavior; qualities of mind; disposition; specifically, good qualities; virtues.
Thew (n.) Muscle or strength; nerve; brawn; sinew.
Thewed (a.) Furnished with thews or muscles; as, a well-thewed limb.
Thewed (a.) Accustomed; mannered.
Thewy (a.) Having strong or large thews or muscles; muscular; sinewy; strong.
They (obj.) The plural of he, she, or it. They is never used adjectively, but always as a pronoun proper, and sometimes refers to persons without an antecedent expressed.
Thialdine (n.) A weak nitrogenous sulphur base, C6H13NS2.
Thialol (n.) A colorless oily liquid, (C2H5)2S2, having a strong garlic odor; -- called also ethyl disulphide. By extension, any one of the series of related compounds.
Thibetan (a.) Of or pertaining to Thibet.
Thibetan (n.) A native or inhabitant of Thibet.
Thibet cloth () A fabric made of coarse goat's hair; a kind of camlet.
Thibet cloth () A kind of fine woolen cloth, used for dresses, cloaks, etc.
Thibetian (a. & n.) Same as Thibetan.
Thible (n.) A slice; a skimmer; a spatula; a pudding stick.
Thick (superl.) Measuring in the third dimension other than length and breadth, or in general dimension other than length; -- said of a solid body; as, a timber seven inches thick.
Thick (superl.) Having more depth or extent from one surface to its opposite than usual; not thin or slender; as, a thick plank; thick cloth; thick paper; thick neck.
Thick (superl.) Dense; not thin; inspissated; as, thick vapors. Also used figuratively; as, thick darkness.
Thick (superl.) Not transparent or clear; hence, turbid, muddy, or misty; as, the water of a river is apt to be thick after a rain.
Thick (superl.) Abundant, close, or crowded in space; closely set; following in quick succession; frequently recurring.
Thick (superl.) Not having due distinction of syllables, or good articulation; indistinct; as, a thick utterance.
Thick (superl.) Deep; profound; as, thick sleep.
Thick (superl.) Dull; not quick; as, thick of fearing.
Thick (superl.) Intimate; very friendly; familiar.
Thick (n.) The thickest part, or the time when anything is thickest.
Thick (n.) A thicket; as, gloomy thicks.
Thick (adv.) Frequently; fast; quick.
Thick (adv.) Closely; as, a plat of ground thick sown.
Thick (adv.) To a great depth, or to a greater depth than usual; as, land covered thick with manure.
Thick (v. t. & i.) To thicken.
Thickbill (n.) The bullfinch.
Thickened (imp. & p. p.) of Thicken
Thickening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thicken
Thicken (v. t.) To make thick (in any sense of the word).
Thicken (v. t.) To render dense; to inspissate; as, to thicken paint.
Thicken (v. t.) To make close; to fill up interstices in; as, to thicken cloth; to thicken ranks of trees or men.
Thicken (v. t.) To strengthen; to confirm.
Thicken (v. t.) To make more frequent; as, to thicken blows.
Thicken (v. i.) To become thick.
Thickening (n.) Something put into a liquid or mass to make it thicker.
Thicket (a.) A wood or a collection of trees, shrubs, etc., closely set; as, a ram caught in a thicket.
Thickhead (n.) A thick-headed or stupid person.
Thickhead (n.) Any one of several species of Australian singing birds of the genus Pachycephala. The males of some of the species are bright-colored. Some of the species are popularly called thrushes.
Thick-headed (a.) Having a thick skull; stupid.
Thickish (a.) Somewhat thick.
Thick-knee (n.) A stone curlew. See under Stone.
Thickly (adv.) In a thick manner; deeply; closely.
Thickness (n.) The quality or state of being thick (in any of the senses of the adjective).
Thickset (a.) Close planted; as, a thickset wood; a thickset hedge.
Thickset (a.) Having a short, thick body; stout.
Thickset (n.) A close or thick hedge.
Thickset (n.) A stout, twilled cotton cloth; a fustian corduroy, or velveteen.
Thickskin (n.) A coarse, gross person; a person void of sensibility or sinsitiveness; a dullard.
Thick-skinned (a.) Having a thick skin; hence, not sensitive; dull; obtuse.
Thickskull (n.) A dullard, or dull person; a blockhead; a numskull.
Thick-skulled (a.) Having a thick skull; hence, dull; heavy; stupid; slow to learn.
Thick wind () A defect of respiration in a horse, that is unassociated with noise in breathing or with the signs of emphysema.
Thick-winded (a.) Affected with thick wind.
Thider (adv.) Thither.
Thiderward (adv.) Thitherward.
Thieves (pl. ) of Thief
Thief (n.) One who steals; one who commits theft or larceny. See Theft.
Thief (n.) A waster in the snuff of a candle.
Thiefly (a. & adv.) Like a thief; thievish; thievishly.
Thienone (n.) A ketone derivative of thiophene obtained as a white crystalline substance, (C4H3S)2.CO, by the action of aluminium chloride and carbonyl chloride on thiophene.
Thienyl (n.) The hypothetical radical C4H3S, regarded as the essential residue of thiophene and certain of its derivatives.
Thieved (imp. & p. p.) of Thieve
Thieving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thieve
Thieve (v. t. & i.) To practice theft; to steal.
Thievery (n.) The practice of stealing; theft; thievishness.
Thievery (n.) That which is stolen.
Thievish (a.) Given to stealing; addicted to theft; as, a thievish boy, a thievish magpie.
Thievish (a.) Like a thief; acting by stealth; sly; secret.
Thievish (a.) Partaking of the nature of theft; accomplished by stealing; dishonest; as, a thievish practice.
Thigh (n.) The proximal segment of the hind limb between the knee and the trunk. See Femur.
Thigh (n.) The coxa, or femur, of an insect.
Thilk (pron.) That same; this; that.
Thill (n.) One of the two long pieces of wood, extending before a vehicle, between which a horse is hitched; a shaft.
Thill (n.) The floor of a coal mine.
Thiller (n.) The horse which goes between the thills, or shafts, and supports them; also, the last horse in a team; -- called also thill horse.
Thimble (n.) A kind of cap or cover, or sometimes a broad ring, for the end of the finger, used in sewing to protect the finger when pushing the needle through the material. It is usually made of metal, and has upon the outer surface numerous small pits to catch the head of the needle.
Thimble (n.) Any thimble-shaped appendage or fixure.
Thimble (n.) A tubular piece, generally a strut, through which a bolt or pin passes.
Thimble (n.) A fixed or movable ring, tube, or lining placed in a hole.
Thimble (n.) A tubular cone for expanding a flue; -- called ferrule in England.
Thimble (n.) A ring of thin metal formed with a grooved circumference so as to fit within an eye-spice, or the like, and protect it from chafing.
Thimbleberry (n.) A kind of black raspberry (Rubus occidentalis), common in America.
Thimbleeye (n.) The chub mackerel. See under Chub.
Thimblefuls (pl. ) of Thimbleful
Thimbleful (n.) As much as a thimble will hold; a very small quantity.
Thimblerig (n.) A sleight-of-hand trick played with three small cups, shaped like thimbles, and a small ball or little pea.
Thimblerigged (imp. & p. p.) of Thimblerig
Thimblerigging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thimblerig
Thimblerig (v. t.) To swindle by means of small cups or thimbles, and a pea or small ball placed under one of them and quickly shifted to another, the victim laying a wager that he knows under which cup it is; hence, to cheat by any trick.
Thimblerigger (n.) One who cheats by thimblerigging, or tricks of legerdemain.
Thimbleweed (n.) Any plant of the composite genus Rudbeckia, coarse herbs somewhat resembling the sunflower; -- so called from their conical receptacles.
Thin (superl.) Having little thickness or extent from one surface to its opposite; as, a thin plate of metal; thin paper; a thin board; a thin covering.
Thin (superl.) Rare; not dense or thick; -- applied to fluids or soft mixtures; as, thin blood; thin broth; thin air.
Thin (superl.) Not close; not crowded; not filling the space; not having the individuals of which the thing is composed in a close or compact state; hence, not abundant; as, the trees of a forest are thin; the corn or grass is thin.
Thin (superl.) Not full or well grown; wanting in plumpness.
Thin (superl.) Not stout; slim; slender; lean; gaunt; as, a person becomes thin by disease.
Thin (superl.) Wanting in body or volume; small; feeble; not full.
Thin (superl.) Slight; small; slender; flimsy; wanting substance or depth or force; superficial; inadequate; not sufficient for a covering; as, a thin disguise.
Thin (adv.) Not thickly or closely; in a seattered state; as, seed sown thin.
Thinned (imp. & p. p.) of Thin
Thinning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thin
Thin (v. t.) To make thin (in any of the senses of the adjective).
Thin (v. i.) To grow or become thin; -- used with some adverbs, as out, away, etc.; as, geological strata thin out, i. e., gradually diminish in thickness until they disappear.
Thine (pron. & a.) A form of the possessive case of the pronoun thou, now superseded in common discourse by your, the possessive of you, but maintaining a place in solemn discourse, in poetry, and in the usual language of the Friends, or Quakers.
Thing (n.) Whatever exists, or is conceived to exist, as a separate entity, whether animate or inanimate; any separable or distinguishable object of thought.
Thing (n.) An inanimate object, in distinction from a living being; any lifeless material.
Thing (n.) A transaction or occurrence; an event; a deed.
Thing (n.) A portion or part; something.
Thing (n.) A diminutive or slighted object; any object viewed as merely existing; -- often used in pity or contempt.
Thing (n.) Clothes; furniture; appurtenances; luggage; as, to pack or store one's things.
Thing (n.) Whatever may be possessed or owned; a property; -- distinguished from person.
Thing (n.) In Scandinavian countries, a legislative or judicial assembly.
Thought (imp. & p. p.) of Think
Thinking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Think
Think (v. t.) To seem or appear; -- used chiefly in the expressions methinketh or methinks, and methought.
Think (v. t.) To employ any of the intellectual powers except that of simple perception through the senses; to exercise the higher intellectual faculties.
Think (v. t.) To call anything to mind; to remember; as, I would have sent the books, but I did not think of it.
Think (v. t.) To reflect upon any subject; to muse; to meditate; to ponder; to consider; to deliberate.
Think (v. t.) To form an opinion by reasoning; to judge; to conclude; to believe; as, I think it will rain to-morrow.
Think (v. t.) To purpose; to intend; to design; to mean.
Think (v. t.) To presume; to venture.
Think (v. t.) To conceive; to imagine.
Think (v. t.) To plan or design; to plot; to compass.
Think (v. t.) To believe; to consider; to esteem.
Thinkable (a.) Capable of being thought or conceived; cogitable.
Thinker (n.) One who thinks; especially and chiefly, one who thinks in a particular manner; as, a close thinker; a deep thinker; a coherent thinker.
Thinking (a.) Having the faculty of thought; cogitative; capable of a regular train of ideas; as, man is a thinking being.
Thinking (n.) The act of thinking; mode of thinking; imagination; cogitation; judgment.
Thinly (a.) In a thin manner; in a loose, scattered manner; scantily; not thickly; as, ground thinly planted with trees; a country thinly inhabited.
Thinner (n.) One who thins, or makes thinner.
Thinness (n.) The quality or state of being thin (in any of the senses of the word).
Thinnish (a.) Somewhat thin.
Thinolite (n.) A calcareous tufa, in part crystalline, occurring on a large scale as a shore deposit about the Quaternary lake basins of Nevada.
Thin-skinned (a.) Having a thin skin; hence, sensitive; irritable.
Thio- () A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting the presence of sulphur. See Sulpho-.
Thiocarbonate (n.) A sulphocarbonate.
Thiocarbonic (a.) Same as Sulphocarbonic.
Thiocyanate (n.) Same as Sulphocyanate.
Thiocyanic (a.) Same as Sulphocyanic.
Thionaphthene (n.) A double benzene and thiophene nucleus, C8H6S, analogous to naphthalene, and like it the base of a large series of derivatives.
Thionic (a.) Of or pertaining to sulphur; containing or resembling sulphur; specifically, designating certain of the thio compounds; as, the thionic acids. Cf. Dithionic, Trithionic, Tetrathionic, etc.
Thionine (n.) An artificial red or violet dyestuff consisting of a complex sulphur derivative of certain aromatic diamines, and obtained as a dark crystalline powder; -- called also phenylene violet.
Thionol (n.) A red or violet dyestuff having a greenish metallic luster. It is produced artificially, by the chemical dehydration of thionine, as a brown amorphous powder.
Thionoline (n.) A beautiful fluorescent crystalline substance, intermediate in composition between thionol and thionine.
Thionyl (n.) The hypothetical radical SO, regarded as an essential constituent of certain sulphurous compounds; as, thionyl chloride.
Thiophene (n.) A sulphur hydrocarbon, C4H4S, analogous to furfuran and benzene, and acting as the base of a large number of substances which closely resemble the corresponding aromatic derivatives.
Thiophenic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, thiophene; specifically, designating a certain acid analogous to benzoic acid.
Thiophenol (n.) A colorless mobile liquid, C6H5.SH, of an offensive odor, and analogous to phenol; -- called also phenyl sulphydrate.
Thiophthene (n.) A double thiophene nucleus, C6H4S2, analogous to thionaphthene, and the base of a large series of compounds.
Thiosulphate (n.) A salt of thiosulphuric acid; -- formerly called hyposulphite.
Thiosulphuric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an unstable acid, H2S2O3, analogous to sulphuric acid, and formerly called hyposulphurous acid.
Thiotolene (n.) A colorless oily liquid, C4H3S.CH3, analogous to, and resembling, toluene; -- called also methyl thiophene.
Thioxene (n.) Any one of three possible metameric substances, which are dimethyl derivatives of thiophene, like the xylenes from benzene.
Third (a.) Next after the second; coming after two others; -- the ordinal of three; as, the third hour in the day.
Third (a.) Constituting or being one of three equal parts into which anything is divided; as, the third part of a day.
Third (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by three; one of three equal parts into which anything is divided.
Third (n.) The sixtieth part of a second of time.
Third (n.) The third tone of the scale; the mediant.
Third (n.) The third part of the estate of a deceased husband, which, by some local laws, the widow is entitled to enjoy during her life.
Third-borough (n.) An under constable.
Thirdings (n. pl.) The third part of the corn or grain growing on the ground at the tenant's death, due to the lord for a heriot, as within the manor of Turfat in Herefordshire.
Thirdly (adv.) In the third place.
Third-penny (n.) A third part of the profits of fines and penalties imposed at the country court, which was among the perquisites enjoyed by the earl.
Thirled (imp. & p. p.) of Thirl
Thirling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thirl
Thirl (v. t.) To bore; to drill or thrill. See Thrill.
Thirlage (n.) The right which the owner of a mill possesses, by contract or law, to compel the tenants of a certain district, or of his sucken, to bring all their grain to his mill for grinding.
Thirst (n.) A sensation of dryness in the throat associated with a craving for liquids, produced by deprivation of drink, or by some other cause (as fear, excitement, etc.) which arrests the secretion of the pharyngeal mucous membrane; hence, the condition producing this sensation.
Thirst (n.) Fig.: A want and eager desire after anything; a craving or longing; -- usually with for, of, or after; as, the thirst for gold.
Thirsted (imp. & p. p.) of Thirst
Thirsting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thirst
Thirst (n.) To feel thirst; to experience a painful or uneasy sensation of the throat or fauces, as for want of drink.
Thirst (n.) To have a vehement desire.
Thirst (v. t.) To have a thirst for.
Thirster (n.) One who thirsts.
Thirstily (adv.) In a thirsty manner.
Thirstiness (n.) The state of being thirsty; thirst.
Thirstle (n.) The throstle.
Thirsty (n.) Feeling thirst; having a painful or distressing sensation from want of drink; hence, having an eager desire.
Thirsty (n.) Deficient in moisture; dry; parched.
Thirteen (a.) One more than twelve; ten and three; as, thirteen ounces or pounds.
Thirteen (n.) The number greater by one than twelve; the sum of ten and three; thirteen units or objects.
Thirteen (n.) A symbol representing thirteen units, as 13 or xiii.
Thirteenth (a.) Next in order after the twelfth; the third after the tenth; -- the ordinal of thirteen; as, the thirteenth day of the month.
Thirteenth (a.) Constituting or being one of thirteen equal parts into which anything is divided.
Thirteenth (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by thirteen; one of thirteen equal parts into which anything is divided.
Thirteenth (n.) The next in order after the twelfth.
Thirteenth (n.) The interval comprising an octave and a sixth.
Thirtieth (a.) Next in order after the twenty-ninth; the tenth after the twentieth; -- the ordinal of thirty; as, the thirtieth day of the month.
Thirtieth (a.) Constituting or being one of thirty equal parts into which anything is divided.
Thirtieth (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by thirty; one of thirty equal parts.
Thirty (a.) Being three times ten; consisting of one more than twenty-nine; twenty and ten; as, the month of June consists of thirty days.
Thirties (pl. ) of Thirty
Thirty (n.) The sum of three tens, or twenty and ten; thirty units or objects.
Thirty (n.) A symbol expressing thirty, as 30, or XXX.
Thirty-second (a.) Being one of thirty-two equal parts into which anything is divided.
These (pl. ) of This
This (pron. & a.) As a demonstrative pronoun, this denotes something that is present or near in place or time, or something just mentioned, or that is just about to be mentioned.
This (pron. & a.) As an adjective, this has the same demonstrative force as the pronoun, but is followed by a noun; as, this book; this way to town.
Thistle (n.) Any one of several prickly composite plants, especially those of the genera Cnicus, Craduus, and Onopordon. The name is often also applied to other prickly plants.
Thistly (a.) Overgrown with thistles; as, thistly ground.
Thistly (a.) Fig.: Resembling a thistle or thistles; sharp; pricking.
Thither (adv.) To that place; -- opposed to hither.
Thither (adv.) To that point, end, or result; as, the argument tended thither.
Thither (a.) Being on the farther side from the person speaking; farther; -- a correlative of hither; as, on the thither side of the water.
Thither (a.) Applied to time: On the thither side of, older than; of more years than. See Hither, a.
Thitherto (adv.) To that point; so far.
Thitherward (adv.) To ward that place; in that direction.
Thitsee (n.) The varnish tree of Burmah (Melanorrhoea usitatissima).
Thitsee (n.) A black varnish obtained from the tree.
Thlipsis (n.) Compression, especially constriction of vessels by an external cause.
Tho (def. art.) The.
Tho (pron. pl.) Those.
Tho (adv.) Then.
Tho (conj.) Though.
Thole (n.) A wooden or metal pin, set in the gunwale of a boat, to serve as a fulcrum for the oar in rowing.
Thole (n.) The pin, or handle, of a scythe snath.
Tholed (imp. & p. p.) of Thole
Tholing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thole
Thole (v. t.) To bear; to endure; to undergo.
Thole (v. i.) To wait.
Thomaean (n.) Alt. of Thomean
Thomean (n.) A member of the ancient church of Christians established on the Malabar coast of India, which some suppose to have been originally founded by the Apostle Thomas.
Thomism (n.) Alt. of Thomaism
Thomaism (n.) The doctrine of Thomas Aquinas, esp. with respect to predestination and grace.
Thomist (n.) A follower of Thomas Aquinas. See Scotist.
Thomite (n.) A Thomaean.
Thomsenolite (n.) A fluoride of aluminium, calcium, and sodium occurring with the cryolite of Greenland.
Thomsen's disease () An affection apparently congenital, consisting in tonic contraction and stiffness of the voluntary muscles occurring after a period of muscular inaction.
Thomsonian (a.) Of or pertaining to Thomsonianism.
Thomsonian (n.) A believer in Thomsonianism; one who practices Thomsonianism.
Thomsonianism (n.) An empirical system which assumes that the human body is composed of four elements, earth, air, fire, and water, and that vegetable medicines alone should be used; -- from the founder, Dr. Samuel Thomson, of Massachusetts.
Thomsonite (n.) A zeolitic mineral, occurring generally in masses of a radiated structure. It is a hydrous silicate of aluminia, lime, and soda. Called also mesole, and comptonite.
Thong (n.) A strap of leather; especially, one used for fastening anything.
Thooid (a.) Of or pertaining to a group of carnivores, including the wovels and the dogs.
Thor (n.) The god of thunder, and son of Odin.
Thoracentesis (n.) The operation of puncturing the chest wall so as to let out liquids contained in the cavity of the chest.
Thoracic (a.) Of or pertaining to the thorax, or chest.
Thoracic (n.) One of a group of fishes having the ventral fins placed beneath the thorax or beneath the pectorial fins.
Thoracica (n. pl.) A division of cirripeds including those which have six thoracic segments, usually bearing six pairs of cirri. The common barnacles are examples.
Thoracometer (n.) Same as Stethometer.
Thoracoplasty (n.) A remodeling or reshaping of the thorax; especially, the operation of removing the ribs, so as to obliterate the pleural cavity in cases of empyema.
Thoracostraca (a.) An extensive division of Crustacea, having a dorsal shield or carapec/ //niting all, or nearly all, of the thoracic somites to the head. It includes the crabs, lobsters, shrimps, and similar species.
Thoracotomy (n.) The operation of opening the pleural cavity by incision.
Thoral (a.) Of or pertaining to a bed.
Thorax (n.) The part of the trunk between the neck and the abdomen, containing that part of the body cavity the walls of which are supported by the dorsal vertebrae, the ribs, and the sternum, and which the heart and lungs are situated; the chest.
Thorax (n.) The middle region of the body of an insect, or that region which bears the legs and wings. It is composed of three united somites, each of which is composed of several distinct parts. See Illust. in Appendix. and Illust. of Coleoptera.
Thorax (n.) The second, or middle, region of the body of a crustacean, arachnid, or other articulate animal. In the case of decapod Crustacea, some writers include under the term thorax only the three segments bearing the maxillipeds; others include also the five segments bearing the legs. See Illust. in Appendix.
Thorax (n.) A breastplate, cuirass, or corselet; especially, the breastplate worn by the ancient Greeks.
Thoria (n.) A rare white earthy substance, consisting of the oxide of thorium; -- formerly called also thorina.
Thoric (a.) Of or pertaining to thorium; designating the compounds of thorium.
Thorite (n.) A mineral of a brown to black color, or, as in the variety orangite, orange-yellow. It is essentially a silicate of thorium.
Thorium (n.) A metallic element found in certain rare minerals, as thorite, pyrochlore, monazite, etc., and isolated as an infusible gray metallic powder which burns in the air and forms thoria; -- formerly called also thorinum. Symbol Th. Atomic weight 232.0.
Thorn (n.) A hard and sharp-pointed projection from a woody stem; usually, a branch so transformed; a spine.
Thorn (n.) Any shrub or small tree which bears thorns; especially, any species of the genus Crataegus, as the hawthorn, whitethorn, cockspur thorn.
Thorn (n.) Fig.: That which pricks or annoys as a thorn; anything troublesome; trouble; care.
Thorn (n.) The name of the Anglo-Saxon letter /, capital form /. It was used to represent both of the sounds of English th, as in thin, then. So called because it was the initial letter of thorn, a spine.
Thorn (v. t.) To prick, as with a thorn.
Thornback (n.) A European skate (Raia clavata) having thornlike spines on its back.
Thornback (n.) The large European spider crab or king crab (Maia squinado).
Thornbill (n.) Any one of several species of small, brilliantly colored American birds of the genus Rhamphomicron. They have a long, slender, sharp bill, and feed upon honey, insects, and the juice of the sugar cane.
Thornbird (n.) A small South American bird (Anumbius anumbii) allied to the ovenbirds of the genus Furnarius). It builds a very large and complex nest of twigs and thorns in a bush or tree.
Thornbut (n.) The turbot.
Thorn-headed (a.) Having a head armed with thorns or spines.
Thornless (a.) Destitute of, or free from, thorns.
Thornset (a.) Set with thorns.
Thorntail (n.) A beautiful South American humming bird (Gouldia Popelairii), having the six outer tail feathers long, slender, and pointed. The head is ornamented with a long, pointed crest.
Thorny (superl.) Full of thorns or spines; rough with thorns; spiny; as, a thorny wood; a thorny tree; a thorny crown.
Thorny (superl.) Like a thorn or thorns; hence, figuratively, troublesome; vexatious; harassing; perplexing.
Thoro (a.) Thorough.
Thorough (prep.) Through.
Thorough (a.) Passing through; as, thorough lights in a house.
Thorough (a.) Passing through or to the end; hence, complete; perfect; as, a thorough reformation; thorough work; a thorough translator; a thorough poet.
Thorough (adv.) Thoroughly.
Thorough (adv.) Through.
Thorough (n.) A furrow between two ridges, to drain off the surface water.
Thorough bass () The representation of chords by figures placed under the base; figured bass; basso continuo; -- sometimes used as synonymous with harmony.
Thorough-brace (n.) A leather strap supporting the body of a carriage, and attached to springs, or serving as a spring. See Illust. of Chaise.
Thoroughbred (a.) Bred from the best blood through a long line; pure-blooded; -- said of stock, as horses. Hence, having the characteristics of such breeding; mettlesome; courageous; of elegant form, or the like.
Thoroughbred (n.) A thoroughbred animal, especially a horse.
Thoroughfare (n.) A passage through; a passage from one street or opening to another; an unobstructed way open to the public; a public road; hence, a frequented street.
Thoroughfare (n.) A passing or going through; passage.
Thoroughgoing (a.) Going through, or to the end or bottom; very thorough; complete.
Thoroughgoing (a.) Going all lengths; extreme; thoroughplaced; -- less common in this sense.
Thorough-lighted (a.) Provided with thorough lights or windows at opposite sides, as a room or building.
Thoroughly (adv.) In a thorough manner; fully; entirely; completely.
Thoroughness (n.) The quality or state of being thorough; completeness.
Thoroughpaced (a.) Perfect in what is undertaken; complete; going all lengths; as, a thoroughplaced Tory or Whig.
Thoroughpin (n.) A disease of the hock (sometimes of the knee) of a horse, caused by inflammation of the synovial membrane and a consequent excessive secretion of the synovial fluid; -- probably so called because there is usually an oval swelling on each side of the leg, appearing somewhat as if a pin had been thrust through.
Thoroughsped (a.) Fully accomplished; thoroughplaced.
Thoroughstitch (adv.) So as to go the whole length of any business; fully; completely.
Thoroughwax (n.) An umbelliferous plant (Bupleurum rotundifolium) with perfoliate leaves.
Thoroughwax (n.) Thoroughwort.
Thoroughwort (n.) Same as Boneset.
Thorow (prep.) Through.
Thorow (a.) Thorough.
Thorp (n.) Alt. of Thorpe
Thorpe (n.) A group of houses in the country; a small village; a hamlet; a dorp; -- now chiefly occurring in names of places and persons; as, Althorp, Mablethorpe.
Those (pron.) The plural of that. See That.
Thoth (n.) The god of eloquence and letters among the ancient Egyptians, and supposed to be the inventor of writing and philosophy. He corresponded to the Mercury of the Romans, and was usually represented as a human figure with the head of an ibis or a lamb.
Thoth (n.) The Egyptian sacred baboon.
Thou (obj.) The second personal pronoun, in the singular number, denoting the person addressed; thyself; the pronoun which is used in addressing persons in the solemn or poetical style.
Thou (v. t.) To address as thou, esp. to do so in order to treat with insolent familiarity or contempt.
Thou (v. i.) To use the words thou and thee in discourse after the manner of the Friends.
Though (conj.) Granting, admitting, or supposing that; notwithstanding that; if.
Though (adv.) However; nevertheless; notwithstanding; -- used in familiar language, and in the middle or at the end of a sentence.
Thought () imp. & p. p. of Think.
Thought (n.) The act of thinking; the exercise of the mind in any of its higher forms; reflection; cogitation.
Thought (n.) Meditation; serious consideration.
Thought (n.) That which is thought; an idea; a mental conception, whether an opinion, judgment, fancy, purpose, or intention.
Thought (n.) Solicitude; anxious care; concern.
Thought (n.) A small degree or quantity; a trifle; as, a thought longer; a thought better.
Thoughtful (a.) Full of thought; employed in meditation; contemplative; as, a man of thoughtful mind.
Thoughtful (a.) Attentive; careful; exercising the judgment; having the mind directed to an object; as, thoughtful of gain; thoughtful in seeking truth.
Thoughtful (a.) Anxious; solicitous; concerned.
Thoughtless (adv.) Lacking thought; careless; inconsiderate; rash; as, a thoughtless person, or act.
Thoughtless (adv.) Giddy; gay; dissipated.
Thoughtless (adv.) Deficient in reasoning power; stupid; dull.
Thousand (n.) The number of ten hundred; a collection or sum consisting of ten times one hundred units or objects.
Thousand (n.) Hence, indefinitely, a great number.
Thousand (n.) A symbol representing one thousand units; as, 1,000, M or CI/.
Thousand (a.) Consisting of ten hundred; being ten times one hundred.
Thousand (a.) Hence, consisting of a great number indefinitely.
Thousandfold (a.) Multiplied by a thousand.
Thousand legs () A millepid, or galleyworm; -- called also thousand-legged worm.
Thousandth (a.) Next in order after nine hundred and ninty-nine; coming last of a thousand successive individuals or units; -- the ordinal of thousand; as, the thousandth part of a thing.
Thousandth (a.) Constituting, or being one of, a thousand equal parts into which anything is divided; the tenth of a hundredth.
Thousandth (a.) Occurring as being one of, or the last one of, a very great number; very small; minute; -- used hyperbolically; as, to do a thing for the thousandth time.
Thousandth (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by a thousand; one of a thousand equal parts into which a unit is divided.
Thowel (n.) Alt. of Thowl
Thowl (n.) A thole pin.
Thowl (n.) A rowlock.
Thracian (a.) Of or pertaining to Thrace, or its people.
Thracian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Thrace.
Thrack (v. t.) To load or burden; as, to thrack a man with property.
Thrackscat (n.) Metal still in the mine.
Thraldom (n.) The condition of a thrall; slavery; bondage; state of servitude.
Thrall (n.) A slave; a bondman.
Thrall (n.) Slavery; bondage; servitude; thraldom.
Thrall (n.) A shelf; a stand for barrels, etc.
Thrall (a.) Of or pertaining to a thrall; in the condition of a thrall; bond; enslaved.
Thrall (v. t.) To enslave.
Thralldom (n.) Thraldom.
Thrall-less (a.) Having no thralls.
Thrall-less (a.) Not enslaved; not subject to bonds.
Thrall-like (a.) Resembling a thrall, or his condition, feelings, or the like; slavish.
Thranite (n.) One of the rowers on the topmost of the three benches in a trireme.
Thrapple (n.) Windpipe; throttle.
Thrashed (imp. & p. p.) of Thresh
Thrashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thresh
Thrash (v. t.) Alt. of Thresh
Thresh (v. t.) To beat out grain from, as straw or husks; to beat the straw or husk of (grain) with a flail; to beat off, as the kernels of grain; as, to thrash wheat, rye, or oats; to thrash over the old straw.
Thresh (v. t.) To beat soundly, as with a stick or whip; to drub.
Thrash (v. t.) Alt. of Thresh
Thresh (v. t.) To practice thrashing grain or the like; to perform the business of beating grain from straw; as, a man who thrashes well.
Thresh (v. t.) Hence, to labor; to toil; also, to move violently.
Thrashel (n.) An instrument to thrash with; a flail.
Thrasher (n.) Alt. of Thresher
Thresher (n.) One who, or that which, thrashes grain; a thrashing machine.
Thresher (n.) A large and voracious shark (Alopias vulpes), remarkable for the great length of the upper lobe of its tail, with which it beats, or thrashes, its prey. It is found both upon the American and the European coasts. Called also fox shark, sea ape, sea fox, slasher, swingle-tail, and thrasher shark.
Thresher (n.) A name given to the brown thrush and other allied species. See Brown thrush.
Thrashing () a. & n. from Thrash, v.
Thrasonical (a.) Of or pertaining to Thraso; like, or becoming to, Thraso; bragging; boastful; vainglorious.
Thraste (imp.) of Thraste
Thrast (p. p.) of Thraste
Thraste (v. t.) To thrust.
Thrave (n.) Twenty-four (in some places, twelve) sheaves of wheat; a shock, or stook.
Thrave (n.) The number of two dozen; also, an indefinite number; a bunch; a company; a throng.
Thraw (n. & v.) See Throse.
Thread (n.) A very small twist of flax, wool, cotton, silk, or other fibrous substance, drawn out to considerable length; a compound cord consisting of two or more single yarns doubled, or joined together, and twisted.
Thread (n.) A filament, as of a flower, or of any fibrous substance, as of bark; also, a line of gold or silver.
Thread (n.) The prominent part of the spiral of a screw or nut; the rib. See Screw, n., 1.
Thread (n.) Fig.: Something continued in a long course or tenor; a,s the thread of life, or of a discourse.
Thread (n.) Fig.: Composition; quality; fineness.
Threaded (imp. & p. p.) of Thread
Threading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thread
Thread (v. t.) To pass a thread through the eye of; as, to thread a needle.
Thread (v. t.) To pass or pierce through as a narrow way; also, to effect or make, as one's way, through or between obstacles; to thrid.
Thread (v. t.) To form a thread, or spiral rib, on or in; as, to thread a screw or nut.
Threadbare (a.) Worn to the naked thread; having the nap worn off; threadbare clothes.
Threadbare (a.) Fig.: Worn out; as, a threadbare subject; stale topics and threadbare quotations.
Threadbareness (n.) The state of being threadbare.
Threaden (a.) Made of thread; as, threaden sails; a threaden fillet.
Threader (n.) A device for assisting in threading a needle.
Threader (n.) A tool or machine for forming a thread on a screw or in a nut.
Threadfin (n.) Any one of several species of fishes belonging to Polynemus and allied genera. They have numerous long pectoral filaments.
Threadfish (n.) The cutlass fish.
Threadfish (n.) A carangoid fish (Caranx gallus, or C. crinitus) having the anterior rays of the soft dorsal and anal fins prolonged in the form of long threads.
Threadiness (n.) Quality of being thready.
Thread-shaped (a.) Having the form of a thread; filiform.
Threadworm (n.) Any long, slender nematode worm, especially the pinworm and filaria.
Thready (a.) Like thread or filaments; slender; as, the thready roots of a shrub.
Thready (a.) Containing, or consisting of, thread.
Threaped (imp. & p. p.) of Threap
Threaping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Threap
Threap (v. t.) To call; to name.
Threap (v. t.) To maintain obstinately against denial or contradiction; also, to contend or argue against (another) with obstinacy; to chide; as, he threaped me down that it was so.
Threap (v. t.) To beat, or thrash.
Threap (v. t.) To cozen, or cheat.
Threap (v. i.) To contend obstinately; to be pertinacious.
Threap (n.) An obstinate decision or determination; a pertinacious affirmation.
Threat (n.) The expression of an intention to inflict evil or injury on another; the declaration of an evil, loss, or pain to come; menace; threatening; denunciation.
Threat (n.) To threaten.
Threatened (imp. & p. p.) of Threaten
Threatening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Threaten
Threaten (v. t.) To utter threats against; to menace; to inspire with apprehension; to alarm, or attempt to alarm, as with the promise of something evil or disagreeable; to warn.
Threaten (v. t.) To exhibit the appearance of (something evil or unpleasant) as approaching; to indicate as impending; to announce the conditional infliction of; as, to threaten war; to threaten death.
Threaten (v. i.) To use threats, or menaces; also, to have a threatening appearance.
Threatener (n.) One who threatens.
Threatening () a. & n. from Threaten, v.
Threatful (a.) Full of threats; having a menacing appearance.
Threave (n.) Same as Thrave.
Three (a.) One more than two; two and one.
Three (n.) The number greater by a unit than two; three units or objects.
Three (n.) A symbol representing three units, as 3 or iii.
Three-coat (a.) Having or consisting of three coats; -- applied to plastering which consists of pricking-up, floating, and a finishing coat; or, as called in the United States, a scratch coat, browning, and finishing coat.
Three-cornered (a.) Having three corners, or angles; as, a three-cornered hat.
Three-cornered (a.) Having three prominent longitudinal angles; as, a three-cornered stem.
Three-decker (n.) A vessel of war carrying guns on three decks.
Three-flowered (a.) Bearing three flowers together, or only three flowers.
Threefold (a.) Consisting of three, or thrice repeated; triple; as, threefold justice.
Three-handed (a.) Said of games or contests where three persons play against each other, or two against one; as, a three-handed game of cards.
Three-leafed (a.) Alt. of Three-leaved
Three-leaved (a.) Producing three leaves; as, three-leaved nightshade.
Three-leaved (a.) Consisting of three distinct leaflets; having the leaflets arranged in threes.
Three-lobed (a.) Having three lobes.
Three-nerved (a.) Having three nerves.
Three-parted (a.) Divided into, or consisting of, three parts; tripartite.
Threepence (n.) A small silver coin of three times the value of a penny.
Threepenny (a.) Costing or worth three pence; hence, worth but little; poor; mean.
Three-pile (n.) An old name for the finest and most costly kind of velvet, having a fine, thick pile.
Three-piled (a.) Having the quality of three-pile; best; most costly.
Three-piled (a.) Fig.: Extravagant; exaggerated; high-flown.
Three-piled (a.) Accustomed to wearing three-pile; hence, of high rank, or wealth.
Three-ply (a.) Consisting of three distinct webs inwrought together in weaving, as cloth or carpeting; having three strands; threefold.
Three-pointed (a.) Having three acute or setigerous points; tricuspidate.
Three-quarter (a.) Measuring thirty inches by twenty-five; -- said of portraitures.
Three-score (a.) Thrice twenty; sixty.
Three-sided (a.) Having three sides, especially three plane sides; as, a three-sided stem, leaf, petiole, peduncle, scape, or pericarp.
Three-square (a.) Having a cross section in the form of an equilateral triangle; -- said especially of a kind of file.
Three-valved (a.) Consisting of, or having, three valves; opening with three valves; as, a three-valved pericarp.
Three-way (a.) Connected with, or serving to connect, three channels or pipes; as, a three-way cock or valve.
Threne (n.) Lamentation; threnody; a dirge.
Threnetic (a.) Alt. of Threnetical
Threnetical (a.) Pertaining to a threne; sorrowful; mournful.
Threnode (n.) A threne, or threnody; a dirge; a funeral song.
Threnodist (n.) One who composes, delivers, or utters, a threnode, or threnody.
Threnody (n.) A song of lamentation; a threnode.
Threpe (v. t.) To call; to term.
Threpsology (n.) The doctrine of nutrition; a treatise on nutrition.
Threshed (imp. & p. p.) of Thresh
Threshing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thresh
Thresh (v. t. & i.) Same as Thrash.
Thresher (n.) Same as Thrasher.
Thresh-fold (n.) Threshold.
Threshold (n.) The plank, stone, or piece of timber, which lies under a door, especially of a dwelling house, church, temple, or the like; the doorsill; hence, entrance; gate; door.
Threshold (n.) Fig.: The place or point of entering or beginning, entrance; outset; as, the threshold of life.
Threshwold (n.) Threshold.
Threste (imp.) of Threste
Threst (p. p. &) of Threste
Threste (v. t.) To thrust.
Thretteen (a.) Thirteen.
Thretty (a.) Thirty.
Threw () imp. of Throw.
Thribble (a.) Triple; treble; threefold.
Thrice (adv.) Three times.
Thrice (adv.) In a threefold manner or degree; repeatedly; very.
Thricecock (n.) The missel thrush.
Thrid (a.) Third.
Thridded (imp. & p. p.) of Thrid
Thridding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thrid
Thrid (v. t.) To pass through in the manner of a thread or a needle; to make or find a course through; to thread.
Thrid (v. t.) To make or effect (a way or course) through something; as, to thrid one's way through a wood.
Thrid (n.) Thread; continuous line.
Thrifallow (v. t.) See Thryfallow, and Trifallow.
Thrift (n.) A thriving state; good husbandry; economical management in regard to property; frugality.
Thrift (n.) Success and advance in the acquisition of property; increase of worldly goods; gain; prosperity.
Thrift (n.) Vigorous growth, as of a plant.
Thrift (n.) One of several species of flowering plants of the genera Statice and Armeria.
Thriftily (adv.) In a thrifty manner.
Thriftily (adv.) Carefully; properly; becomingly.
Thriftiness (n.) The quality or state of being thrifty; thrift.
Thriftless (a.) Without thrift; not prudent or prosperous in money affairs.
Thrifty (superl.) Given to, or evincing, thrift; characterized by economy and good menegement of property; sparing; frugal.
Thrifty (superl.) Thriving by industry and frugality; prosperous in the acquisition of worldly goods; increasing in wealth; as, a thrifty farmer or mechanic.
Thrifty (superl.) Growing rapidly or vigorously; thriving; as, a thrifty plant or colt.
Thrifty (superl.) Secured by thrift; well husbanded.
Thrifty (superl.) Well appearing; looking or being in good condition; becoming.
Thrill (n.) A warbling; a trill.
Thrill (v. t.) A breathing place or hole; a nostril, as of a bird.
Thrilled (imp. & p. p.) of Thrill
Thrilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thrill
Thrill (v. t.) To perforate by a pointed instrument; to bore; to transfix; to drill.
Thrill (v. t.) Hence, to affect, as if by something that pierces or pricks; to cause to have a shivering, throbbing, tingling, or exquisite sensation; to pierce; to penetrate.
Thrill (v. t.) To hurl; to throw; to cast.
Thrill (v. i.) To pierce, as something sharp; to penetrate; especially, to cause a tingling sensation that runs through the system with a slight shivering; as, a sharp sound thrills through the whole frame.
Thrill (v. i.) To feel a sharp, shivering, tingling, or exquisite sensation, running through the body.
Thrill (n.) A drill. See 3d Drill, 1.
Thrill (n.) A sensation as of being thrilled; a tremulous excitement; as, a thrill of horror; a thrill of joy.
Thrillant (a.) Piercing; sharp; thrilling.
Thrilling (a.) Causing a thrill; causing tremulous excitement; deeply moving; as, a thrilling romance.
Throng (imp.) of Thring
Thring (v. t. & i.) To press, crowd, or throng.
Thrips (n.) Any one of numerous small species of Thysanoptera, especially those which attack useful plants, as the grain thrips (Thrips cerealium).
Thrist (n.) Thrist.
Thrittene (a.) Thirteen.
Throve (imp.) of Thrive
Thrived () of Thrive
Thrived (p. p.) of Thrive
Thriven () of Thrive
Thriving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thrive
Thrive (v. i.) To prosper by industry, economy, and good management of property; to increase in goods and estate; as, a farmer thrives by good husbandry.
Thrive (v. i.) To prosper in any business; to have increase or success.
Thrive (v. i.) To increase in bulk or stature; to grow vigorously or luxuriantly, as a plant; to flourish; as, young cattle thrive in rich pastures; trees thrive in a good soil.
Thriven () p. p. of Thrive.
Thriver (n.) One who thrives, or prospers.
Thrivingly (adv.) In a thriving manner.
Thrivingness (n.) The quality or condition of one who thrives; prosperity; growth; increase.
Thro' () A contraction of Through.
Throat (n.) The part of the neck in front of, or ventral to, the vertebral column.
Throat (n.) Hence, the passage through it to the stomach and lungs; the pharynx; -- sometimes restricted to the fauces.
Throat (n.) A contracted portion of a vessel, or of a passage way; as, the throat of a pitcher or vase.
Throat (n.) The part of a chimney between the gathering, or portion of the funnel which contracts in ascending, and the flue.
Throat (n.) The upper fore corner of a boom-and-gaff sail, or of a staysail.
Throat (n.) That end of a gaff which is next the mast.
Throat (n.) The angle where the arm of an anchor is joined to the shank.
Throat (n.) The inside of a timber knee.
Throat (n.) The orifice of a tubular organ; the outer end of the tube of a monopetalous corolla; the faux, or fauces.
Throat (v. t.) To utter in the throat; to mutter; as, to throat threats.
Throat (v. t.) To mow, as beans, in a direction against their bending.
Throatband (n.) Same as Throatlatch.
Throatboll (n.) The Adam's apple in the neck.
Throating (n.) A drip, or drip molding.
Throatlatch (n.) A strap of a bridle, halter, or the like, passing under a horse's throat.
Throatwort (n.) A plant (Campanula Trachelium) formerly considered a remedy for sore throats because of its throat-shaped corolla.
Throaty (a.) Guttural; hoarse; having a guttural voice.
Throbbed (imp. & p. p.) of Throb
Throbbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Throb
Throb (v. i.) To beat, or pulsate, with more than usual force or rapidity; to beat in consequence of agitation; to palpitate; -- said of the heart, pulse, etc.
Throb (n.) A beat, or strong pulsation, as of the heart and arteries; a violent beating; a papitation:
Throdden (v. i.) To grow; to thrive.
Throe (n.) Extreme pain; violent pang; anguish; agony; especially, one of the pangs of travail in childbirth, or purturition.
Throe (n.) A tool for splitting wood into shingles; a frow.
Throe (v. i.) To struggle in extreme pain; to be in agony; to agonize.
Throe (v. t.) To put in agony.
Thrombosis (n.) The obstruction of a blood vessel by a clot formed at the site of obstruction; -- distinguished from embolism, which is produced by a clot or foreign body brought from a distance.
Thrombi (pl. ) of Thrombus
Thrombus (n.) A clot of blood formed of a passage of a vessel and remaining at the site of coagulation.
Thrombus (n.) A tumor produced by the escape of blood into the subcutaneous cellular tissue.
Throne (n.) A chair of state, commonly a royal seat, but sometimes the seat of a prince, bishop, or other high dignitary.
Throne (n.) Hence, sovereign power and dignity; also, the one who occupies a throne, or is invested with sovereign authority; an exalted or dignified personage.
Throne (n.) A high order of angels in the celestial hierarchy; -- a meaning given by the schoolmen.
Throned (imp. & p. p.) of Throne
Throning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Throne
Throne (v. t.) To place on a royal seat; to enthrone.
Throne (v. t.) To place in an elevated position; to give sovereignty or dominion to; to exalt.
Throne (v. i.) To be in, or sit upon, a throne; to be placed as if upon a throne.
Throneless (a.) Having no throne.
Throng (n.) A multitude of persons or of living beings pressing or pressed into a close body or assemblage; a crowd.
Throng (n.) A great multitude; as, the heavenly throng.
Thronged (imp. & p. p.) of Throng
Thronging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Throng
Throng (v. i.) To crowd together; to press together into a close body, as a multitude of persons; to gather or move in multitudes.
Throng (v. t.) To crowd, or press, as persons; to oppress or annoy with a crowd of living beings.
Throng (v. t.) To crowd into; to fill closely by crowding or pressing into, as a hall or a street.
Throng (a.) Thronged; crowded; also, much occupied; busy.
Throngly (adv.) In throngs or crowds.
Throp (n.) A thorp.
Thropple (n.) The windpipe.
Thropple (v. t.) To throttle.
Throstle (n.) The song thrush. See under Song.
Throstle (n.) A machine for spinning wool, cotton, etc., from the rove, consisting of a set of drawing rollers with bobbins and flyers, and differing from the mule in having the twisting apparatus stationary and the processes continuous; -- so called because it makes a singing noise.
Throstling (n.) A disease of bovine cattle, consisting of a swelling under the throat, which, unless checked, causes strangulation.
Throttle (n.) The windpipe, or trachea; the weasand.
Throttle (n.) The throttle valve.
Throttled (imp. & p. p.) of Throttle
Throttling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Throttle
Throttle (v. t.) To compress the throat of; to choke; to strangle.
Throttle (v. t.) To utter with breaks and interruption, in the manner of a person half suffocated.
Throttle (v. t.) To shut off, or reduce flow of, as steam to an engine.
Throttle (v. i.) To have the throat obstructed so as to be in danger of suffocation; to choke; to suffocate.
Throttle (v. i.) To breathe hard, as when nearly suffocated.
Throttler (n.) One who, or that which, throttles, or chokes.
Throttler (n.) See Flasher, 3 (b).
Through (prep.) From end to end of, or from side to side of; from one surface or limit of, to the opposite; into and out of at the opposite, or at another, point; as, to bore through a piece of timber, or through a board; a ball passes through the side of a ship.
Through (prep.) Between the sides or walls of; within; as, to pass through a door; to go through an avenue.
Through (prep.) By means of; by the agency of.
Through (prep.) Over the whole surface or extent of; as, to ride through the country; to look through an account.
Through (prep.) Among or in the midst of; -- used to denote passage; as, a fish swims through the water; the light glimmers through a thicket.
Through (prep.) From the beginning to the end of; to the end or conclusion of; as, through life; through the year.
Through (adv.) From one end or side to the other; as, to pierce a thing through.
Through (adv.) From beginning to end; as, to read a letter through.
Through (adv.) To the end; to a conclusion; to the ultimate purpose; as, to carry a project through.
Through (a.) Going or extending through; going, extending, or serving from the beginning to the end; thorough; complete; as, a through line; a through ticket; a through train. Also, admitting of passage through; as, a through bridge.
Throughly (adv.) Thoroughly.
Throughout (prep.) Quite through; from one extremity to the other of; also, every part of; as, to search throughout the house.
Throughout (adv.) In every part; as, the cloth was of a piece throughout.
Throve () imp. of Thrive.
Throw (n.) Pain; especially, pain of travail; throe.
Throw (n.) Time; while; space of time; moment; trice.
Threw (imp.) of Throw
Thrown (p. p.) of Throw
Throwing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Throw
Throw (v. t.) To fling, cast, or hurl with a certain whirling motion of the arm, to throw a ball; -- distinguished from to toss, or to bowl.
Throw (v. t.) To fling or cast in any manner; to drive to a distance from the hand or from an engine; to propel; to send; as, to throw stones or dust with the hand; a cannon throws a ball; a fire engine throws a stream of water to extinguish flames.
Throw (v. t.) To drive by violence; as, a vessel or sailors may be thrown upon a rock.
Throw (v. t.) To cause to take a strategic position; as, he threw a detachment of his army across the river.
Throw (v. t.) To overturn; to prostrate in wrestling; as, a man throws his antagonist.
Throw (v. t.) To cast, as dice; to venture at dice.
Throw (v. t.) To put on hastily; to spread carelessly.
Throw (v. t.) To divest or strip one's self of; to put off.
Throw (v. t.) To form or shape roughly on a throwing engine, or potter's wheel, as earthen vessels.
Throw (v. t.) To give forcible utterance to; to cast; to vent.
Throw (v. t.) To bring forth; to produce, as young; to bear; -- said especially of rabbits.
Throw (v. t.) To twist two or more filaments of, as silk, so as to form one thread; to twist together, as singles, in a direction contrary to the twist of the singles themselves; -- sometimes applied to the whole class of operations by which silk is prepared for the weaver.
Throw (v. i.) To perform the act of throwing or casting; to cast; specifically, to cast dice.
Throw (n.) The act of hurling or flinging; a driving or propelling from the hand or an engine; a cast.
Throw (n.) A stroke; a blow.
Throw (n.) The distance which a missile is, or may be, thrown; as, a stone's throw.
Throw (n.) A cast of dice; the manner in which dice fall when cast; as, a good throw.
Throw (n.) An effort; a violent sally.
Throw (n.) The extreme movement given to a sliding or vibrating reciprocating piece by a cam, crank, eccentric, or the like; travel; stroke; as, the throw of a slide valve. Also, frequently, the length of the radius of a crank, or the eccentricity of an eccentric; as, the throw of the crank of a steam engine is equal to half the stroke of the piston.
Throw (n.) A potter's wheel or table; a jigger. See 2d Jigger, 2 (a).
Throw (n.) A turner's lathe; a throwe.
Throw (n.) The amount of vertical displacement produced by a fault; -- according to the direction it is designated as an upthrow, or a downthrow.
Throw-crook (n.) An instrument used for twisting ropes out of straw.
Throwe (n.) A turning lathe.
Thrower (n.) One who throws. Specifically: (a) One who throws or twists silk; a throwster. (b) One who shapes vessels on a throwing engine.
Throwing () a. & n. from Throw, v.
Thrown () a. & p. p. from Throw, v.
Throw-off (n.) A start in a hunt or a race.
Throwster (n.) One who throws or twists silk; a thrower.
Thru (prep., adv. & a.) Through.
Thrum (n.) One of the ends of weaver's threads; hence, any soft, short threads or tufts resembling these.
Thrum (n.) Any coarse yarn; an unraveled strand of rope.
Thrum (n.) A threadlike part of a flower; a stamen.
Thrum (n.) A shove out of place; a small displacement or fault along a seam.
Thrum (n.) A mat made of canvas and tufts of yarn.
Thrummed (imp. & p. p.) of Thrum
Thrumming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thrum
Thrum (v. t.) To furnish with thrums; to insert tufts in; to fringe.
Thrum (v. t.) To insert short pieces of rope-yarn or spun yarn in; as, to thrum a piece of canvas, or a mat, thus making a rough or tufted surface.
Thrum (v. i.) To play rudely or monotonously on a stringed instrument with the fingers; to strum.
Thrum (v. i.) Hence, to make a monotonous drumming noise; as, to thrum on a table.
Thrum (v. t.) To play, as a stringed instrument, in a rude or monotonous manner.
Thrum (v. t.) Hence, to drum on; to strike in a monotonous manner; to thrum the table.
Thrum-eyed (a.) Having the anthers raised above the stigma, and visible at the throat of the corolla, as in long-stamened primroses; -- the reverse of pin-eyed.
Thrummy (a.) Like thrums; made of, furnished with, or characterized by, thrums.
Thrumwort (n.) A kind of amaranth (Amarantus caudatus).
Thruout () Throughout.
Thrush (n.) Any one of numerous species of singing birds belonging to Turdus and allied genera. They are noted for the sweetness of their songs.
Thrush (n.) Any one of numerous species of singing birds more or less resembling the true thrushes in appearance or habits; as the thunderbird and the American brown thrush (or thrasher). See Brown thrush.
Thrush (n.) An affection of the mouth, fauces, etc., common in newly born children, characterized by minute ulcers called aphthae. See Aphthae.
Thrush (n.) An inflammatory and suppurative affection of the feet in certain animals. In the horse it is in the frog.
Thrushel (n.) The song thrush.
Thrusher (n.) The song thrush.
Thrust (n. & v.) Thrist.
Thrust (imp. & p. p.) of Thrust
Thrusting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thrust
Thrust (v. t.) To push or drive with force; to drive, force, or impel; to shove; as, to thrust anything with the hand or foot, or with an instrument.
Thrust (v. t.) To stab; to pierce; -- usually with through.
Thrust (v. i.) To make a push; to attack with a pointed weapon; as, a fencer thrusts at his antagonist.
Thrust (v. i.) To enter by pushing; to squeeze in.
Thrust (v. i.) To push forward; to come with force; to press on; to intrude.
Thrust (n.) A violent push or driving, as with a pointed weapon moved in the direction of its length, or with the hand or foot, or with any instrument; a stab; -- a word much used as a term of fencing.
Thrust (n.) An attack; an assault.
Thrust (n.) The force or pressure of one part of a construction against other parts; especially (Arch.), a horizontal or diagonal outward pressure, as of an arch against its abutments, or of rafters against the wall which support them.
Thrust (n.) The breaking down of the roof of a gallery under its superincumbent weight.
Thruster (n.) One who thrusts or stabs.
Thrusting (n.) The act of pushing with force.
Thrusting (n.) The act of squeezing curd with the hand, to expel the whey.
Thrusting (n.) The white whey, or that which is last pressed out of the curd by the hand, and of which butter is sometimes made.
Thrustle (n.) The throstle, or song thrust.
Thryes (a.) Thrice.
Thryfallow (v. t.) To plow for the third time in summer; to trifallow.
Thud (n.) A dull sound without resonance, like that produced by striking with, or striking against, some comparatively soft substance; also, the stroke or blow producing such sound; as, the thrud of a cannon ball striking the earth.
Thug (n.) One of an association of robbers and murderers in India who practiced murder by stealthy approaches, and from religious motives. They have been nearly exterminated by the British government.
Thuggee (n.) The practice of secret or stealthy murder by Thugs.
Thuggery (n.) Alt. of Thuggism
Thuggism (n.) Thuggee.
Thuja (n.) A genus of evergreen trees, thickly branched, remarkable for the distichous arrangement of their branches, and having scalelike, closely imbricated, or compressed leaves.
Thule (n.) The name given by ancient geographers to the northernmost part of the habitable world. According to some, this land was Norway, according to others, Iceland, or more probably Mainland, the largest of the Shetland islands; hence, the Latin phrase ultima Thule, farthest Thule.
Thulia (n.) Oxide of thulium.
Thulium (n.) A rare metallic element of uncertain properties and identity, said to have been found in the mineral gadolinite.
Thumb (n.) The short, thick first digit of the human hand, differing from the other fingers in having but two phalanges; the pollex. See Pollex.
Thumbed (imp. & p. p.) of Thumb
Thumbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thumb
Thumb (v. t.) To handle awkwardly.
Thumb (v. t.) To play with the thumbs, or with the thumbs and fingers; as, to thumb over a tune.
Thumb (v. t.) To soil or wear with the thumb or the fingers; to soil, or wear out, by frequent handling; also, to cover with the thumb; as, to thumb the touch-hole of a cannon.
Thumb (v. i.) To play with the thumb or thumbs; to play clumsily; to thrum.
Thumbbird (n.) The goldcrest.
Thumbed (a.) Having thumbs.
Thumbed (a.) Soiled by handling.
Thumbkin (n.) An instrument of torture for compressing the thumb; a thumbscrew.
Thumbless (a.) Without a thumb.
Thumbscrew (n.) A screw having a flat-sided or knurled head, so that it may be turned by the thumb and forefinger.
Thumbscrew (n.) An old instrument of torture for compressing the thumb by a screw; a thumbkin.
Thummie (n.) The chiff-chaff.
Thummim (n. pl.) A mysterious part or decoration of the breastplate of the Jewish high priest. See the note under Urim.
Thump (n.) The sound made by the sudden fall or blow of a heavy body, as of a hammer, or the like.
Thump (n.) A blow or knock, as with something blunt or heavy; a heavy fall.
Thumped (imp. & p. p.) of Thump
Thumping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thump
Thump (v. t.) To strike or beat with something thick or heavy, or so as to cause a dull sound.
Thump (v. i.) To give a thump or thumps; to strike or fall with a heavy blow; to pound.
Thumper (n.) One who, or that which, thumps.
Thumping (a.) Heavy; large.
Thunder (n.) The sound which follows a flash of lightning; the report of a discharge of atmospheric electricity.
Thunder (n.) The discharge of electricity; a thunderbolt.
Thunder (n.) Any loud noise; as, the thunder of cannon.
Thunder (n.) An alarming or statrling threat or denunciation.
Thundered (imp. & p. p.) of Thunder
Thundering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thunder
Thunder (n.) To produce thunder; to sound, rattle, or roar, as a discharge of atmospheric electricity; -- often used impersonally; as, it thundered continuously.
Thunder (n.) Fig.: To make a loud noise; esp. a heavy sound, of some continuance.
Thunder (n.) To utter violent denunciation.
Thunder (v. t.) To emit with noise and terror; to utter vehemently; to publish, as a threat or denunciation.
Thunderbird (n.) An Australian insectivorous singing bird (Pachycephala gutturalis). The male is conspicuously marked with black and yellow, and has a black crescent on the breast. Called also white-throated thickhead, orange-breasted thrust, black-crowned thrush, guttural thrush, and black-breasted flycatcher.
Thunderbolt (n.) A shaft of lightning; a brilliant stream of electricity passing from one part of the heavens to another, or from the clouds to the earth.
Thunderbolt (n.) Something resembling lightning in suddenness and effectiveness.
Thunderbolt (n.) Vehement threatening or censure; especially, ecclesiastical denunciation; fulmination.
Thunderbolt (n.) A belemnite, or thunderstone.
Thunderburst (n.) A burst of thunder.
Thunderclap (n.) A sharp burst of thunder; a sudden report of a discharge of atmospheric electricity.
Thundercloud (n.) A cloud charged with electricity, and producing lightning and thunder.
Thunderer (n.) One who thunders; -- used especially as a translation of L. tonans, an epithet applied by the Romans to several of their gods, esp. to Jupiter.
Thunderfish (n.) A large European loach (Misgurnus fossilis).
Thunderhead (n.) A rounded mass of cloud, with shining white edges; a cumulus, -- often appearing before a thunderstorm.
Thundering (a.) Emitting thunder.
Thundering (a.) Very great; -- often adverbially.
Thundering (n.) Thunder.
Thunderless (a.) Without thunder or noise.
Thunderous (a.) Producing thunder.
Thunderous (a.) Making a noise like thunder; sounding loud and deep; sonorous.
Thunderproof (a.) Secure against the effects of thunder or lightning.
Thundershower (n.) A shower accompanied with lightning and thunder.
Thunderstone (n.) A thunderbolt, -- formerly believed to be a stone.
Thunderstone (n.) A belemnite. See Belemnite.
Thunderstorm (n.) A storm accompanied with lightning and thunder.
Thunderstruck (imp.) of Thunderstrike
Thunderstruck (p. p.) of Thunderstrike
-strucken () of Thunderstrike
Thunderstriking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thunderstrike
Thunderstrike (v. t.) To strike, blast, or injure by, or as by, lightning.
Thunderstrike (v. t.) To astonish, or strike dumb, as with something terrible; -- rarely used except in the past participle.
Thunderworm (n.) A small, footless, burrowing, snakelike lizard (Rhineura Floridana) allied to Amphisbaena, native of Florida; -- so called because it leaves its burrows after a thundershower.
Thundery (a.) Accompanied with thunder; thunderous.
Thundrous (a.) Thunderous; sonorous.
Thunny (n.) The tunny.
Thurgh (prep.) Through.
Thurghfare (n.) Thoroughfare.
Thurible (n.) A censer of metal, for burning incense, having various forms, held in the hand or suspended by chains; -- used especially at mass, vespers, and other solemn services.
Thuriferous (a.) Producing or bearing frankincense.
Thurification (n.) The act of fuming with incense, or the act of burning incense.
Thuringian (a.) Of or pertaining to Thuringia, a country in Germany, or its people.
Thuringian (n.) A native, or inhabitant of Thuringia.
Thuringite (n.) A mineral occurring as an aggregation of minute scales having an olive-green color and pearly luster. It is a hydrous silicate of aluminia and iron.
Thurl (n.) A hole; an aperture.
Thurl (n.) A short communication between adits in a mine.
Thurl (n.) A long adit in a coalpit.
Thurl (v. t.) To cut through; to pierce.
Thurl (v. t.) To cut through, as a partition between one working and another.
Thurling (n.) Same as Thurl, n., 2 (a).
Thurrok (n.) The hold of a ship; a sink.
Thursday (n.) The fifth day of the week, following Wednesday and preceding Friday.
Thurst (n.) The ruins of the fallen roof resulting from the removal of the pillars and stalls.
Thus (n.) The commoner kind of frankincense, or that obtained from the Norway spruce, the long-leaved pine, and other conifers.
Thus (adv.) In this or that manner; on this wise.
Thus (adv.) To this degree or extent; so far; so; as, thus wise; thus peaceble; thus bold.
Thussock (n.) See Tussock.
Thuya (n.) Same as Thuja.
Thuyin (n.) A substance extracted from trees of the genus Thuja, or Thuya, and probably identical with quercitrin.
Thwacked (imp. & p. p.) of Thwack
Thwacking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thwack
Thwack (v. t.) To strike with something flat or heavy; to bang, or thrash: to thump.
Thwack (v. t.) To fill to overflow.
Thwack (n.) A heavy blow with something flat or heavy; a thump.
Thwaite (n.) The twaite.
Thwaite (n.) Forest land cleared, and converted to tillage; an assart.
Thwart (a.) Situated or placed across something else; transverse; oblique.
Thwart (a.) Fig.: Perverse; crossgrained.
Thwart (a.) Thwartly; obliquely; transversely; athwart.
Thwart (prep.) Across; athwart.
Thwart (n.) A seat in an open boat reaching from one side to the other, or athwart the boat.
Thwarted (imp. & p. p.) of Thwart
Thwarting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Thwart
Thwart (v. t.) To move across or counter to; to cross; as, an arrow thwarts the air.
Thwart (v. t.) To cross, as a purpose; to oppose; to run counter to; to contravene; hence, to frustrate or defeat.
Thwart (v. i.) To move or go in an oblique or crosswise manner.
Thwart (v. i.) Hence, to be in opposition; to clash.
Thwarter (n.) A disease in sheep, indicated by shaking, trembling, or convulsive motions.
Thwartingly (adv.) In a thwarting or obstructing manner; so as to thwart.
Thwartly (adv.) Transversely; obliquely.
Thwartness (n.) The quality or state of being thwart; obliquity; perverseness.
Thwite (v. t.) To cut or clip with a knife; to whittle.
Thwittle (v. t.) To cut or whittle.
Thwittle (n.) A small knife; a whittle.
Thy (pron.) Of thee, or belonging to thee; the more common form of thine, possessive case of thou; -- used always attributively, and chiefly in the solemn or grave style, and in poetry. Thine is used in the predicate; as, the knife is thine. See Thine.
Thyine wood () The fragrant and beautiful wood of a North African tree (Callitris quadrivalvis), formerly called Thuja articulata. The tree is of the Cedar family, and furnishes a balsamic resin called sandarach.
Thylacine (n.) The zebra wolf. See under Wolf.
Thymate (n.) A compound of thymol analogous to a salt; as, sodium thymate.
Thyme (n.) Any plant of the labiate genus Thymus. The garden thyme (Thymus vulgaris) is a warm, pungent aromatic, much used to give a relish to seasoning and soups.
Thymene (n.) A liquid terpene obtained from oil of thyme.
Thymiatechny (n.) The art of employing perfumes in medicine.
Thymic (a.) Of or pertaining to the thymus gland.
Thymic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, thyme; as, thymic acid.
Thymol (n.) A phenol derivative of cymene, C10H13.OH, isomeric with carvacrol, found in oil of thyme, and extracted as a white crystalline substance of a pleasant aromatic odor and strong antiseptic properties; -- called also hydroxy cymene.
Thymus (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, the thymus gland.
Thymus (n.) The thymus gland.
Thymy (a.) Abounding with thyme; fragrant; as, a thymy vale.
Thyro- () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the thyroid body or the thyroid cartilage; as, thyrohyal.
Thyroarytenoid (a.) Of or pertaining to both the thyroid and arytenoid cartilages of the larynx.
Thyrohyal (n.) One of the lower segments in the hyoid arch, often consolidated with the body of the hyoid bone and forming one of its great horns, as in man.
Thyrohyoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the thyroid cartilage of the larynx and the hyoid arch.
Thyroid (a.) Shaped like an oblong shield; shield-shaped; as, the thyroid cartilage.
Thyroid (a.) Of or pertaining to the thyroid body, thyroid cartilage, or thyroid artery; thyroideal.
Thyroideal (a.) Thyroid.
Thyrotomy (n.) The operation of cutting into the thyroid cartilage.
Thyrse (n.) A thyrsus.
Thyrsoid (a.) Alt. of Thyrsoidal
Thyrsoidal (a.) Having somewhat the form of a thyrsus.
Thyrsi (pl. ) of Thyrsus
Thyrsus (n.) A staff entwined with ivy, and surmounted by a pine cone, or by a bunch of vine or ivy leaves with grapes or berries. It is an attribute of Bacchus, and of the satyrs and others engaging in Bacchic rites.
Thyrsus (n.) A species of inflorescence; a dense panicle, as in the lilac and horse-chestnut.
Thysanopter (n.) One of the Thysanoptera.
Thysanoptera (n. pl.) A division of insects, considered by some writers a distinct order, but regarded by others as belonging to the Hemiptera. They are all of small size, and have narrow, broadly fringed wings with rudimentary nervures. Most of the species feed upon the juices of plants, and some, as those which attack grain, are very injurious to crops. Called also Physopoda. See Thrips.
Thysanopteran (n.) One of the Thysanoptera.
Thysanopterous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Thysanoptera.
Thysanura (n. pl.) An order of wingless hexapod insects which have setiform caudal appendages, either bent beneath the body to form a spring, or projecting as bristles. It comprises the Cinura, or bristletails, and the Collembola, or springtails. Called also Thysanoura. See Lepisma, and Podura.
Thysanuran (n.) One of the Thysanura. Also used adjectively.
Thysanurous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Thysanura.
Thysbe (n.) A common clearwing moth (Hemaris thysbe).
Thyself (pron.) An emphasized form of the personal pronoun of the second person; -- used as a subject commonly with thou; as, thou thyself shalt go; that is, thou shalt go, and no other. It is sometimes used, especially in the predicate, without thou, and in the nominative as well as in the objective case.
Tiar (n.) A tiara.
Tiara (n.) A form of headdress worn by the ancient Persians. According to Xenophon, the royal tiara was encircled with a diadem, and was high and erect, while those of the people were flexible, or had rims turned over.
Tiara (n.) The pope's triple crown. It was at first a round, high cap, but was afterward encompassed with a crown, subsequently with a second, and finally with a third. Fig.: The papal dignity.
Tiaraed (a.) Adorned with, or wearing, a tiara.
Tib-cat (n.) A female cat.
Tibiae (pl. ) of Tibia
Tibia (n.) The inner, or preaxial, and usually the larger, of the two bones of the leg or hind limb below the knee.
Tibia (n.) The fourth joint of the leg of an insect. See Illust. under Coleoptera, and under Hexapoda.
Tibia (n.) A musical instrument of the flute kind, originally made of the leg bone of an animal.
Tibial (a.) Of or pertaining to a tibia.
Tibial (a.) Of or pertaining to a pipe or flute.
Tibial (n.) A tibial bone; a tibiale.
Tibialia (pl. ) of Tibiale
Tibiale (n.) The bone or cartilage of the tarsus which articulates with the tibia and corresponds to a part of the astragalus in man and most mammals.
Tibicinate (v. i.) To play on a tibia, or pipe.
Tibio- () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the tibia; as, tibiotarsus, tibiofibular.
Tibiotarsal (a.) Of or pertaining to both to the tibia and the tarsus; as, the tibiotarsal articulation.
Tibiotarsal (a.) Of or pertaining to the tibiotarsus.
Tibiotarsi (pl. ) of Tibiotarsus
Tibiotarsus (n.) The large bone between the femur and tarsometatarsus in the leg of a bird. It is formed by the union of the proximal part of the tarsus with the tibia.
Tibrie (n.) The pollack.
Tic (n.) A local and habitual convulsive motion of certain muscles; especially, such a motion of some of the muscles of the face; twitching; velication; -- called also spasmodic tic.
Tical (n.) A bean-shaped coin of Siam, worth about sixty cents; also, a weight equal to 236 grains troy.
Tical (n.) A money of account in China, reckoning at about $1.60; also, a weight of about four ounces avoirdupois.
Tice (v. t.) To entice.
Tice (n.) A ball bowled to strike the ground about a bat's length in front of the wicket.
Ticement (n.) Enticement.
Tichorrhine (n.) A fossil rhinoceros with a vertical bony medial septum supporting the nose; the hairy rhinoceros.
Tick (n.) Credit; trust; as, to buy on, or upon, tick.
Tick (v. i.) To go on trust, or credit.
Tick (v. i.) To give tick; to trust.
Tick (n.) Any one of numerous species of large parasitic mites which attach themselves to, and suck the blood of, cattle, dogs, and many other animals. When filled with blood they become ovate, much swollen, and usually livid red in color. Some of the species often attach themselves to the human body. The young are active and have at first but six legs.
Tick (n.) Any one of several species of dipterous insects having a flattened and usually wingless body, as the bird ticks (see under Bird) and sheep tick (see under Sheep).
Tick (n.) The cover, or case, of a bed, mattress, etc., which contains the straw, feathers, hair, or other filling.
Tick (n.) Ticking. See Ticking, n.
Ticked (imp. & p. p.) of Tick
Ticking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tick
Tick (v. i.) To make a small or repeating noise by beating or otherwise, as a watch does; to beat.
Tick (v. i.) To strike gently; to pat.
Tick (n.) A quick, audible beat, as of a clock.
Tick (n.) Any small mark intended to direct attention to something, or to serve as a check.
Tick (n.) The whinchat; -- so called from its note.
Tick (v. t.) To check off by means of a tick or any small mark; to score.
Ticken (n.) See Ticking.
Ticker (n.) One who, or that which, ticks, or produces a ticking sound, as a watch or clock, a telegraphic sounder, etc.
Ticket (v.) A small piece of paper, cardboard, or the like, serving as a notice, certificate, or distinguishing token of something.
Ticket (v.) A little note or notice.
Ticket (v.) A tradesman's bill or account.
Ticket (v.) A certificate or token of right of admission to a place of assembly, or of passage in a public conveyance; as, a theater ticket; a railroad or steamboat ticket.
Ticket (v.) A label to show the character or price of goods.
Ticket (v.) A certificate or token of a share in a lottery or other scheme for distributing money, goods, or the like.
Ticket (v.) A printed list of candidates to be voted for at an election; a set of nominations by one party for election; a ballot.
Ticketed (imp. & p. p.) of Ticket
Ticketing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ticket
Ticket (v. t.) To distinguish by a ticket; to put a ticket on; as, to ticket goods.
Ticket (v. t.) To furnish with a tickets; to book; as, to ticket passengers to California.
Ticketing (n.) A periodical sale of ore in the English mining districts; -- so called from the tickets upon which are written the bids of the buyers.
Ticking (n.) A strong, closely woven linen or cotton fabric, of which ticks for beds are made. It is usually twilled, and woven in stripes of different colors, as white and blue; -- called also ticken.
Tickled (imp. & p. p.) of Tickle
Tickling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tickle
Tickle (v. t.) To touch lightly, so as to produce a peculiar thrilling sensation, which commonly causes laughter, and a kind of spasm which become dengerous if too long protracted.
Tickle (v. t.) To please; to gratify; to make joyous.
Tickle (v. i.) To feel titillation.
Tickle (v. i.) To excite the sensation of titillation.
Tickle (a.) Ticklish; easily tickled.
Tickle (a.) Liable to change; uncertain; inconstant.
Tickle (a.) Wavering, or liable to waver and fall at the slightest touch; unstable; easily overthrown.
Tickle-footed (a.) Uncertain; inconstant; slippery.
Ticklenburg (n.) A coarse, mixed linen fabric made to be sold in the West Indies.
Tickleness (n.) Unsteadiness.
Tickler (n.) One who, or that which, tickles.
Tickler (n.) Something puzzling or difficult.
Tickler (n.) A book containing a memorandum of notes and debts arranged in the order of their maturity.
Tickler (n.) A prong used by coopers to extract bungs from casks.
Ticklish (a.) Sensible to slight touches; easily tickled; as, the sole of the foot is very ticklish; the hardened palm of the hand is not ticklish.
Ticklish (a.) Standing so as to be liable to totter and fall at the slightest touch; unfixed; easily affected; unstable.
Ticklish (a.) Difficult; nice; critical; as, a ticklish business.
Tickseed (n.) A seed or fruit resembling in shape an insect, as that of certain plants.
Tickseed (n.) Same as Coreopsis.
Tickseed (n.) Any plant of the genus Corispermum, plants of the Goosefoot family.
Ticktack (n.) A noise like that made by a clock or a watch.
Ticktack (n.) A kind of backgammon played both with men and pegs; tricktrack.
Ticktack (adv.) With a ticking noise, like that of a watch.
Ticpolonga (n.) A very venomous viper (Daboia Russellii), native of Ceylon and India; -- called also cobra monil.
Tid (a.) Tender; soft; nice; -- now only used in tidbit.
Tidal (a.) Of or pertaining to tides; caused by tides; having tides; periodically rising and falling, or following and ebbing; as, tidal waters.
Tidbit (n.) A delicate or tender piece of anything eatable; a delicious morsel.
Tidde (obs.) imp. of Tide, v. i.
Tidder (v. t.) Alt. of Tiddle
Tiddle (v. t.) To use with tenderness; to fondle.
Tide (prep.) Time; period; season.
Tide (prep.) The alternate rising and falling of the waters of the ocean, and of bays, rivers, etc., connected therewith. The tide ebbs and flows twice in each lunar day, or the space of a little more than twenty-four hours. It is occasioned by the attraction of the sun and moon (the influence of the latter being three times that of the former), acting unequally on the waters in different parts of the earth, thus disturbing their equilibrium. A high tide upon one side of the earth is accompanied by a high tide upon the opposite side. Hence, when the sun and moon are in conjunction or opposition, as at new moon and full moon, their action is such as to produce a greater than the usual tide, called the spring tide, as represented in the cut. When the moon is in the first or third quarter, the sun's attraction in part counteracts the effect of the moon's attraction, thus producing under the moon a smaller tide than usual, called the neap tide.
Tide (prep.) A stream; current; flood; as, a tide of blood.
Tide (prep.) Tendency or direction of causes, influences, or events; course; current.
Tide (prep.) Violent confluence.
Tide (prep.) The period of twelve hours.
Tide (v. t.) To cause to float with the tide; to drive or carry with the tide or stream.
Tide (n.) To betide; to happen.
Tide (n.) To pour a tide or flood.
Tide (n.) To work into or out of a river or harbor by drifting with the tide and anchoring when it becomes adverse.
Tided (a.) Affected by the tide; having a tide.
Tideless (a.) Having no tide.
Tide-rode (a.) Swung by the tide when at anchor; -- opposed to wind-rode.
Tidesmen (pl. ) of Tidesman
Tidesman (n.) A customhouse officer who goes on board of a merchant ship to secure payment of the duties; a tidewaiter.
Tidewaiter (n.) A customhouse officer who watches the landing of goods from merchant vessels, in order to secure payment of duties.
Tideway (n.) Channel in which the tide sets.
Tidife (n.) The blue titmouse.
Tidily (adv.) In a tidy manner.
Tidiness (n.) The quality or state of being tidy.
Tiding (n.) Tidings.
Tidings (n.) Account of what has taken place, and was not before known; news.
Tidley (n.) The wren.
Tidley (n.) The goldcrest.
Tidology (n.) A discourse or treatise upon the tides; that part of science which treats of tides.
Tidy (n.) The wren; -- called also tiddy.
Tidy (superl.) Being in proper time; timely; seasonable; favorable; as, tidy weather.
Tidy (superl.) Arranged in good order; orderly; appropriate; neat; kept in proper and becoming neatness, or habitually keeping things so; as, a tidy lass; their dress is tidy; the apartments are well furnished and tidy.
Tidies (pl. ) of Tidy
Tidy (n.) A cover, often of tatting, drawn work, or other ornamental work, for the back of a chair, the arms of a sofa, or the like.
Tidy (n.) A child's pinafore.
Tidied (imp. & p. p.) of Tidy
Tidying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tidy
Tidy (v. t.) To put in proper order; to make neat; as, to tidy a room; to tidy one's dress.
Tidy (v. i.) To make things tidy.
Tidytips (n.) A California composite plant (Layia platyglossa), the flower of which has yellow rays tipped with white.
Ties (pl. ) of Tie
Tie (v. t.) A knot; a fastening.
Tie (v. t.) A bond; an obligation, moral or legal; as, the sacred ties of friendship or of duty; the ties of allegiance.
Tie (v. t.) A knot of hair, as at the back of a wig.
Tie (v. t.) An equality in numbers, as of votes, scores, etc., which prevents either party from being victorious; equality in any contest, as a race.
Tie (v. t.) A beam or rod for holding two parts together; in railways, one of the transverse timbers which support the track and keep it in place.
Tie (v. t.) A line, usually straight, drawn across the stems of notes, or a curved line written over or under the notes, signifying that they are to be slurred, or closely united in the performance, or that two notes of the same pitch are to be sounded as one; a bind; a ligature.
Tie (v. t.) Low shoes fastened with lacings.
Tied (imp. & p. p.) of Tie
Tight () of Tie
Tying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tie
Tie (v. t.) To fasten with a band or cord and knot; to bind.
Tie (v. t.) To form, as a knot, by interlacing or complicating a cord; also, to interlace, or form a knot in; as, to tie a cord to a tree; to knit; to knot.
Tie (v. t.) To unite firmly; to fasten; to hold.
Tie (v. t.) To hold or constrain by authority or moral influence, as by knotted cords; to oblige; to constrain; to restrain; to confine.
Tie (v. t.) To unite, as notes, by a cross line, or by a curved line, or slur, drawn over or under them.
Tie (v. t.) To make an equal score with, in a contest; to be even with.
Tie (v. i.) To make a tie; to make an equal score.
Tiebar (n.) A flat bar used as a tie.
Tiebeam (n.) A beam acting as a tie, as at the bottom of a pair of principal rafters, to prevent them from thrusting out the wall. See Illust. of Timbers, under Roof.
Tier (n.) One who, or that which, ties.
Tier (n.) A chold's apron covering the upper part of the body, and tied with tape or cord; a pinafore.
Tier (v. t.) A row or rank, especially one of two or more rows placed one above, or higher than, another; as, a tier of seats in a theater.
Tierce (n.) A cask whose content is one third of a pipe; that is, forty-two wine gallons; also, a liquid measure of forty-two wine, or thirty-five imperial, gallons.
Tierce (n.) A cask larger than a barrel, and smaller than a hogshead or a puncheon, in which salt provisions, rice, etc., are packed for shipment.
Tierce (n.) The third tone of the scale. See Mediant.
Tierce (n.) A sequence of three playing cards of the same suit. Tierce of ace, king, queen, is called tierce-major.
Tierce (n.) A position in thrusting or parrying in which the wrist and nails are turned downward.
Tierce (n.) The third hour of the day, or nine a. m,; one of the canonical hours; also, the service appointed for that hour.
Tierce (a.) Divided into three equal parts of three different tinctures; -- said of an escutcheon.
Tiercel (n.) Alt. of Tiercelet
Tiercelet (n.) The male of various falcons, esp. of the peregrine; also, the male of the goshawk.
Tierce-major (n.) See Tierce, 4.
Tiercet (n.) A triplet; three lines, or three lines rhyming together.
Tie-rod (n.) A rod used as a tie. See Tie.
Tiers etat () The third estate, or commonalty, in France, answering to the commons in Great Britain; -- so called in distinction from, and as inferior to, the nobles and clergy.
Tietick (n.) The meadow pipit.
Tiewig (n.) A wig having a tie or ties, or one having some of the curls tied up; also, a wig tied upon the head.
Tiff (n.) Liquor; especially, a small draught of liquor.
Tiff (n.) A fit of anger or peevishness; a slight altercation or contention. See Tift.
Tiffed (imp. & p. p.) of Tiff
Tiffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tiff
Tiff (v. i.) To be in a pet.
Tiff (v. t.) To deck out; to dress.
Tiffany (n.) A species of gause, or very silk.
Tiffin (n.) A lunch, or slight repast between breakfast and dinner; -- originally, a Provincial English word, but introduced into India, and brought back to England in a special sense.
Tiffish (a.) Inclined to tiffs; peevish; petulant.
Tift (n.) A fit of pettishness, or slight anger; a tiff.
Tig (n.) A game among children. See Tag.
Tig (n.) A capacious, flat-bottomed drinking cup, generally with four handles, formerly used for passing around the table at convivial entertainment.
Tigella (n.) That part of an embryo which represents the young stem; the caulicle or radicle.
Tigelle (n.) Same as Tigella.
Tiger (n.) A very large and powerful carnivore (Felis tigris) native of Southern Asia and the East Indies. Its back and sides are tawny or rufous yellow, transversely striped with black, the tail is ringed with black, the throat and belly are nearly white. When full grown, it equals or exceeds the lion in size and strength. Called also royal tiger, and Bengal tiger.
Tiger (n.) Fig.: A ferocious, bloodthirsty person.
Tiger (n.) A servant in livery, who rides with his master or mistress.
Tiger (n.) A kind of growl or screech, after cheering; as, three cheers and a tiger.
Tiger (n.) A pneumatic box or pan used in refining sugar.
Tiger-eye (n.) A siliceous stone of a yellow color and chatoyant luster, obtained in South Africa and much used for ornament. It is an altered form of the mineral crocidolite. See Crocidolite.
Tiger-foot (n.) Same as Tiger's-foot.
Tiger-footed (a.) Hastening to devour; furious.
Tigerine (a.) Tigerish; tigrine.
Tigerish (a.) Like a tiger; tigrish.
Tiger's-foot (n.) A name given to some species of morning-glory (Ipomoea) having the leaves lobed in pedate fashion.
Tigh (n.) A close, or inclosure; a croft.
Tight () p. p. of Tie.
Tight (superl.) Firmly held together; compact; not loose or open; as, tight cloth; a tight knot.
Tight (superl.) Close, so as not to admit the passage of a liquid or other fluid; not leaky; as, a tight ship; a tight cask; a tight room; -- often used in this sense as the second member of a compound; as, water-tight; air-tight.
Tight (superl.) Fitting close, or too close, to the body; as, a tight coat or other garment.
Tight (superl.) Not ragged; whole; neat; tidy.
Tight (superl.) Close; parsimonious; saving; as, a man tight in his dealings.
Tight (superl.) Not slack or loose; firmly stretched; taut; -- applied to a rope, chain, or the like, extended or stretched out.
Tight (superl.) Handy; adroit; brisk.
Tight (superl.) Somewhat intoxicated; tipsy.
Tight (superl.) Pressing; stringent; not easy; firmly held; dear; -- said of money or the money market. Cf. Easy, 7.
Tight (v. t.) To tighten.
Tightened (imp. & p. p.) of Tighten
Tightening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tighten
Tighten (v. t.) To draw tighter; to straiten; to make more close in any manner.
Tightener (n.) That which tightens; specifically (Mach.), a tightening pulley.
Tighter (n.) A ribbon or string used to draw clothes closer.
Tightly (adv.) In a tight manner; closely; nearly.
Tightness (n.) The quality or condition of being tight.
Tights (n. pl.) Close-fitting garments, especially for the lower part of the body and the legs.
Tiglic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C4H7CO2H (called also methyl crotonic acid), homologous with crotonic acid, and obtained from croton oil (from Croton Tiglium) as a white crystalline substance.
Tigress (n.) The female of the tiger.
Tigrine (a.) Of or pertaining to a tiger; like a tiger.
Tigrine (a.) Resembling the tiger in color; as, the tigrine cat (Felis tigrina) of South America.
Tigrish (a.) Resembling a tiger; tigerish.
Tike (n.) A tick. See 2d Tick.
Tike (n.) A dog; a cur.
Tike (n.) A countryman or clown; a boorish person.
Tikus (n.) The bulau.
Til (prep. & conj.) See Till.
Tilburies (pl. ) of Tilbury
Tilbury (n.) A kind of gig or two-wheeled carriage, without a top or cover.
Tilde (n.) The accentual mark placed over n, and sometimes over l, in Spanish words [thus, , /], indicating that, in pronunciation, the sound of the following vowel is to be preceded by that of the initial, or consonantal, y.
Tile (v. t.) To protect from the intrusion of the uninitiated; as, to tile a Masonic lodge.
Tile (n.) A plate, or thin piece, of baked clay, used for covering the roofs of buildings, for floors, for drains, and often for ornamental mantel works.
Tile (n.) A small slab of marble or other material used for flooring.
Tile (n.) A plate of metal used for roofing.
Tile (n.) A small, flat piece of dried earth or earthenware, used to cover vessels in which metals are fused.
Tile (n.) A draintile.
Tile (n.) A stiff hat.
Tiled (imp. & p. p.) of Tile
Tiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tile
Tile (v. t.) To cover with tiles; as, to tile a house.
Tile (v. t.) Fig.: To cover, as if with tiles.
Tile-drain (v. t.) To drain by means of tiles; to furnish with a tile drain.
Tilefish (n.) A large, edible, deep-water food fish (Lopholatilus chamaeleonticeps) more or less thickly covered with large, round, yellow spots.
Tiler (n.) A man whose occupation is to cover buildings with tiles.
Tiler (n.) A doorkeeper or attendant at a lodge of Freemasons.
Tileries (pl. ) of Tilery
Tilery (n.) A place where tiles are made or burned; a tile kiln.
Tilestone (n.) A kind of laminated shale or sandstone belonging to some of the layers of the Upper Silurian.
Tilestone (n.) A tile of stone.
Tiliaceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants (Tiliaceae) of which the linden (Tilia) is the type. The order includes many plants which furnish a valuable fiber, as the jute.
Tiling (n.) A surface covered with tiles, or composed of tiles.
Tiling (n.) Tiles, collectively.
Till (n.) A vetch; a tare.
Till (n.) A drawer.
Till (n.) A tray or drawer in a chest.
Till (n.) A money drawer in a shop or store.
Till (n.) A deposit of clay, sand, and gravel, without lamination, formed in a glacier valley by means of the waters derived from the melting glaciers; -- sometimes applied to alluvium of an upper river terrace, when not laminated, and appearing as if formed in the same manner.
Till (n.) A kind of coarse, obdurate land.
Till (v. t.) To; unto; up to; as far as; until; -- now used only in respect to time, but formerly, also, of place, degree, etc., and still so used in Scotland and in parts of England and Ireland; as, I worked till four o'clock; I will wait till next week.
Till (conj.) As far as; up to the place or degree that; especially, up to the time that; that is, to the time specified in the sentence or clause following; until.
Tilled (imp. & p. p.) of Till
Tilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Till
Till (prep.) To plow and prepare for seed, and to sow, dress, raise crops from, etc., to cultivate; as, to till the earth, a field, a farm.
Till (prep.) To prepare; to get.
Till (v. i.) To cultivate land.
Tillable (a.) Capable of being tilled; fit for the plow; arable.
Tillage (n.) The operation, practice, or art of tilling or preparing land for seed, and keeping the ground in a proper state for the growth of crops.
Tillage (n.) A place tilled or cultivated; cultivated land.
Tillandsia (n.) A genus of epiphytic endogenous plants found in the Southern United States and in tropical America. Tillandsia usneoides, called long moss, black moss, Spanish moss, and Florida moss, has a very slender pendulous branching stem, and forms great hanging tufts on the branches of trees. It is often used for stuffing mattresses.
Tiller (v. t.) One who tills; a husbandman; a cultivator; a plowman.
Tiller (n.) A shoot of a plant, springing from the root or bottom of the original stalk; a sucker.
Tiller (n.) A sprout or young tree that springs from a root or stump.
Tiller (n.) A young timber tree.
Tillered (imp. & p. p.) of Tiller
Tillering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tiller
Tiller (v. i.) To put forth new shoots from the root, or round the bottom of the original stalk; as, wheat or rye tillers; some spread plants by tillering.
Tiller (n.) A lever of wood or metal fitted to the rudder head and used for turning side to side in steering. In small boats hand power is used; in large vessels, the tiller is moved by means of mechanical appliances. See Illust. of Rudder. Cf. 2d Helm, 1.
Tiller (n.) The stalk, or handle, of a crossbow; also, sometimes, the bow itself.
Tiller (n.) The handle of anything.
Tiller (n.) A small drawer; a till.
Tilley () Alt. of Tilley seed
Tilley seed () The seeds of a small tree (Croton Pavana) common in the Malay Archipelago. These seeds furnish croton oil, like those of Croton Tiglium.
Tillmen (pl. ) of Tillman
Tillman (n.) A man who tills the earth; a husbandman.
Tillodont (n.) One of the Tillodontia.
Tillodontia (n. pl.) An extinct group of Mammalia found fossil in the Eocene formation. The species are related to the carnivores, ungulates, and rodents. Called also Tillodonta.
Tillet (n.) A bag made of thin glazed muslin, used as a wrapper for dress goods.
Tillow (v. i.) See 3d Tiller.
Tilly-vally (interj., adv., or a.) A word of unknown origin and signification, formerly used as expressive of contempt, or when anything said was reject as trifling or impertinent.
Tilmus (n.) Floccillation.
Tilt (n.) A covering overhead; especially, a tent.
Tilt (n.) The cloth covering of a cart or a wagon.
Tilt (n.) A cloth cover of a boat; a small canopy or awning extended over the sternsheets of a boat.
Tilted (imp. & p. p.) of Tilt
Tilting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tilt
Tilt (v. t.) To cover with a tilt, or awning.
Tilt (v. t.) To incline; to tip; to raise one end of for discharging liquor; as, to tilt a barrel.
Tilt (v. t.) To point or thrust, as a lance.
Tilt (v. t.) To point or thrust a weapon at.
Tilt (v. t.) To hammer or forge with a tilt hammer; as, to tilt steel in order to render it more ductile.
Tilt (v. i.) To run or ride, and thrust with a lance; to practice the military game or exercise of thrusting with a lance, as a combatant on horseback; to joust; also, figuratively, to engage in any combat or movement resembling that of horsemen tilting with lances.
Tilt (v. i.) To lean; to fall partly over; to tip.
Tilt (n.) A thrust, as with a lance.
Tilt (n.) A military exercise on horseback, in which the combatants attacked each other with lances; a tournament.
Tilt (n.) See Tilt hammer, in the Vocabulary.
Tilt (n.) Inclination forward; as, the tilt of a cask.
Tilter (n.) One who tilts, or jousts; hence, one who fights.
Tilter (n.) One who operates a tilt hammer.
Tilth (n.) The state of being tilled, or prepared for a crop; culture; as, land is good tilth.
Tilth (n.) That which is tilled; tillage ground.
Tilt hammer () A tilted hammer; a heavy hammer, used in iron works, which is lifted or tilted by projections or wipers on a revolving shaft; a trip hammer.
Tilting (n.) The act of one who tilts; a tilt.
Tilting (n.) The process by which blister steel is rendered ductile by being forged with a tilt hammer.
Tilt-mill (n.) A mill where a tilt hammer is used, or where the process of tilting is carried on.
Til tree () See Teil.
Tilt-up (n.) Same as Tip-up.
Tilt-yard (n.) A yard or place for tilting.
Timal (n.) The blue titmouse.
Timaline (a.) Of or pertaining to the genus Timalus or family Timalidae, which includes the babblers thrushes, and bulbuls.
Timbal (n.) A kettledrum. See Tymbal.
Timber (n.) A certain quantity of fur skins, as of martens, ermines, sables, etc., packed between boards; being in some cases forty skins, in others one hundred and twenty; -- called also timmer.
Timber (n.) The crest on a coat of arms.
Timber (v. t.) To surmount as a timber does.
Timber (n.) That sort of wood which is proper for buildings or for tools, utensils, furniture, carriages, fences, ships, and the like; -- usually said of felled trees, but sometimes of those standing. Cf. Lumber, 3.
Timber (n.) The body, stem, or trunk of a tree.
Timber (n.) Fig.: Material for any structure.
Timber (n.) A single piece or squared stick of wood intended for building, or already framed; collectively, the larger pieces or sticks of wood, forming the framework of a house, ship, or other structure, in distinction from the covering or boarding.
Timber (n.) Woods or forest; wooden land.
Timber (n.) A rib, or a curving piece of wood, branching outward from the keel and bending upward in a vertical direction. One timber is composed of several pieces united.
Timbered (imp. & p. p.) of Timber
Timbering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Timber
Timber (v. t.) To furnish with timber; -- chiefly used in the past participle.
Timber (v. i.) To light on a tree.
Timber (v. i.) To make a nest.
Timbered (a.) Furnished with timber; -- often compounded; as, a well-timbered house; a low-timbered house.
Timbered (a.) Built; formed; contrived.
Timbered (a.) Massive, like timber.
Timbered (a.) Covered with growth timber; wooden; as, well-timbered land.
Timberhead (n.) The top end of a timber, rising above the gunwale, and serving for belaying ropes, etc.; -- called also kevel head.
Timbering (n.) The act of furnishing with timber; also, timbers, collectively; timberwork; timber.
Timberling (n.) A small tree.
Timbermen (pl. ) of Timberman
Timberman (n.) A man employed in placing supports of timber in a mine.
Timberwork (n.) Work made of timbers.
Timbre (n.) See 1st Timber.
Timbre (n.) The crest on a coat of arms.
Timbre (n.) The quality or tone distinguishing voices or instruments; tone color; clang tint; as, the timbre of the voice; the timbre of a violin. See Tone, and Partial tones, under Partial.
Timbrel (n.) A kind of drum, tabor, or tabret, in use from the highest antiquity.
Timbreled (a.) Alt. of Timbrelled
Timbrelled (a.) Sung to the sound of the timbrel.
Timburine (n.) A tambourine.
Times (pl. ) of Time
Time (n.) Duration, considered independently of any system of measurement or any employment of terms which designate limited portions thereof.
Time (n.) A particular period or part of duration, whether past, present, or future; a point or portion of duration; as, the time was, or has been; the time is, or will be.
Time (n.) The period at which any definite event occurred, or person lived; age; period; era; as, the Spanish Armada was destroyed in the time of Queen Elizabeth; -- often in the plural; as, ancient times; modern times.
Time (n.) The duration of one's life; the hours and days which a person has at his disposal.
Time (n.) A proper time; a season; an opportunity.
Time (n.) Hour of travail, delivery, or parturition.
Time (n.) Performance or occurrence of an action or event, considered with reference to repetition; addition of a number to itself; repetition; as, to double cloth four times; four times four, or sixteen.
Time (n.) The present life; existence in this world as contrasted with immortal life; definite, as contrasted with infinite, duration.
Time (n.) Tense.
Time (n.) The measured duration of sounds; measure; tempo; rate of movement; rhythmical division; as, common or triple time; the musician keeps good time.
Timed (imp. & p. p.) of Time
Timing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Time
Time (v. t.) To appoint the time for; to bring, begin, or perform at the proper season or time; as, he timed his appearance rightly.
Time (v. t.) To regulate as to time; to accompany, or agree with, in time of movement.
Time (v. t.) To ascertain or record the time, duration, or rate of; as, to time the speed of horses, or hours for workmen.
Time (v. t.) To measure, as in music or harmony.
Time (v. i.) To keep or beat time; to proceed or move in time.
Time (v. i.) To pass time; to delay.
Timeful (a.) Seasonable; timely; sufficiently early.
Time-honored (a.) Honored for a long time; venerable, and worthy of honor, by reason of antiquity, or long continuance.
Timekeeper (n.) A clock, watch, or other chronometer; a timepiece.
Timekeeper (n.) A person who keeps, marks, regulates, or determines the time.
Timekeeper (n.) A person who keeps a record of the time spent by workmen at their work.
Timekeeper (n.) One who gives the time for the departure of conveyances.
Timekeeper (n.) One who marks the time in musical performances.
Timekeeper (n.) One appointed to mark and declare the time of participants in races or other contests.
Timeless (a.) Done at an improper time; unseasonable; untimely.
Timeless (a.) Done or occurring before the proper time; premature; immature; as, a timeless grave.
Timeless (a.) Having no end; interminable; unending.
Timelessly (adv.) In a timeless manner; unseasonably.
Timeliness (n.) The quality or state of being timely; seasonableness; opportuneness.
Timeling (n.) A timeserver.
Timely (superl.) Being or occurring in good time; sufficiently early; seasonable.
Timely (superl.) Keeping time or measure.
Timely (adv.) Early; soon; in good season.
Timenoguy (n.) A rope carried taut between or over obstacles likely to engage or foul the running rigging in working a ship.
Timeous (a.) Timely; seasonable.
Timepiece (n.) A clock, watch, or other instrument, to measure or show the progress of time; a chronometer.
Timepleaser (n.) One who complies with prevailing opinions, whatever they may be; a timeserver.
Timer (n.) A timekeeper; especially, a watch by which small intervals of time can be measured; a kind of stop watch. It is used for timing the speed of horses, machinery, etc.
Timesaving (a.) Saving time; as, a timesaving expedient.
Timeserver (n.) One who adapts his opinions and manners to the times; one who obsequiously compiles with the ruling power; -- now used only in a bad sense.
Timeserving (a.) Obsequiously complying with the spirit of the times, or the humors of those in power.
Timeserving (n.) An obsequious compliance with the spirit of the times, or the humors of those in power, which implies a surrender of one's independence, and sometimes of one's integrity.
Time-table (n.) A tabular statement of the time at which, or within which, several things are to take place, as the recitations in a school, the departure and arrival of railroad trains or other public conveyances, the rise and fall of the tides, etc.
Time-table (n.) A plane surface divided in one direction with lines representing hours and minutes, and in the other with lines representing miles, and having diagonals (usually movable strings) representing the speed and position of various trains.
Time-table (n.) A table showing the notation, length, or duration of the several notes.
Timid (a.) Wanting courage to meet danger; easily frightened; timorous; not bold; fearful; shy.
Timidity (n.) The quality or state of being timid; timorousness; timidness.
Timidous (a.) Timid.
Timist (n.) A performer who keeps good time.
Timist (n.) A timeserver.
Timmer (n.) Same as 1st Timber.
Timocracy (n.) A state in which the love of honor is the ruling motive.
Timocracy (n.) A state in which honors are distributed according to a rating of property.
Timocratic (a.) Belonging to, or constituted by, timocracy.
Timoneer (n.) A helmsman.
Timorous (a.) Fearful of danger; timid; deficient in courage.
Timorous (a.) Indicating, or caused by, fear; as, timorous doubts.
Timorsome (a.) Easily frightened; timorous.
Timothy () Alt. of Timothy grass
Timothy grass () A kind of grass (Phleum pratense) with long cylindrical spikes; -- called also herd's grass, in England, cat's-tail grass, and meadow cat's-tail grass. It is much prized for fodder. See Illustration in Appendix.
Timous (a.) Timely; seasonable.
Timpani (pl. ) of Timpano
Timpano (n.) See Tympano.
Tim-whiskey (n.) A kind of carriage. See Whiskey.
Tin (n.) An elementary substance found as an oxide in the mineral cassiterite, and reduced as a soft white crystalline metal, malleable at ordinary temperatures, but brittle when heated. It is not easily oxidized in the air, and is used chiefly to coat iron to protect it from rusting, in the form of tin foil with mercury to form the reflective surface of mirrors, and in solder, bronze, speculum metal, and other alloys. Its compounds are designated as stannous, or stannic. Symbol Sn (Stannum). Atomic weight 117.4.
Tin (n.) Thin plates of iron covered with tin; tin plate.
Tin (n.) Money.
Tinned (imp. & p. p.) of Tin
Tinning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tin
Tin (v. t.) To cover with tin or tinned iron, or to overlay with tin foil.
Tinamides (n. pl.) A division of struthious birds, including the tinamous.
Tinamou (n.) Any one of several species of South American birds belonging to Tinamus and allied genera.
Tincal (n.) Crude native borax, formerly imported from Thibet. It was once the chief source of boric compounds. Cf. Borax.
Tinchel (n.) A circle of sportsmen, who, by surrounding an extensive space and gradually closing in, bring a number of deer and game within a narrow compass.
Tinct (a.) Tined; tinged.
Tinct (n.) Color; tinge; tincture; tint.
Tinct (v. t.) To color or stain; to imblue; to tint.
Tinctorial (a.) Of or relating to color or colors; imparting a color; as, tinctorial matter.
Tincture (n.) A tinge or shade of color; a tint; as, a tincture of red.
Tincture (n.) One of the metals, colors, or furs used in armory.
Tincture (n.) The finer and more volatile parts of a substance, separated by a solvent; an extract of a part of the substance of a body communicated to the solvent.
Tincture (n.) A solution (commonly colored) of medicinal substance in alcohol, usually more or less diluted; spirit containing medicinal substances in solution.
Tincture (n.) A slight taste superadded to any substance; as, a tincture of orange peel.
Tincture (n.) A slight quality added to anything; a tinge; as, a tincture of French manners.
Tinctured (imp. & p. p.) of Tincture
Tincturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tincture
Tincture (v. t.) To communicate a slight foreign color to; to tinge; to impregnate with some extraneous matter.
Tincture (v. t.) To imbue the mind of; to communicate a portion of anything foreign to; to tinge.
Tind (v. t.) To kindle.
Tindal (n.) A petty officer among lascars, or native East Indian sailors; a boatswain's mate; a cockswain.
Tindal (n.) An attendant on an army.
Tinder (n.) Something very inflammable, used for kindling fire from a spark, as scorched linen.
Tine (n.) Trouble; distress; teen.
Tine (v. t.) To kindle; to set on fire.
Tine (v. i.) To kindle; to rage; to smart.
Tine (v. t.) To shut in, or inclose.
Tine (n.) A tooth, or spike, as of a fork; a prong, as of an antler.
Tinea (n.) A name applied to various skin diseases, but especially to ringworm. See Ringworm, and Sycosis.
Tinea (n.) A genus of small Lepidoptera, including the clothes moths and carpet moths.
Tinean (n.) Any species of Tinea, or of the family Tineidae, which includes numerous small moths, many of which are injurious to woolen and fur goods and to cultivated plants. Also used adjectively.
Tined (a.) Furnished with tines; as, a three-tined fork.
Tineid (n.) Same as Tinean.
Tinemen (pl. ) of Tineman
Tineman (n.) An officer of the forest who had the care of vert and venison by night.
Tinet (n.) Brushwood and thorns for making and repairing hedges.
Ting (n.) A sharp sound, as of a bell; a tinkling.
Ting (v. i.) To sound or ring, as a bell; to tinkle.
Ting (n.) The apartment in a Chinese temple where the idol is kept.
Tinged (imp. & p. p.) of Tinge
Tingeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tinge
Tinge (v. t.) To imbue or impregnate with something different or foreign; as, to tinge a decoction with a bitter taste; to affect in some degree with the qualities of another substance, either by mixture, or by application to the surface; especially, to color slightly; to stain; as, to tinge a blue color with red; an infusion tinged with a yellow color by saffron.
Tinge (n.) A degree, usually a slight degree, of some color, taste, or something foreign, infused into another substance or mixture, or added to it; tincture; color; dye; hue; shade; taste.
Tingent (a.) Having the power to tinge.
Tinger (n.) One who, or that which, tinges.
Tingid (a.) Of or pertaining to the genus Tingis.
Tingis (n.) A genus of small hemipterous insects which injure trees by sucking the sap from the leaves. See Illustration in Appendix.
Tingled (imp. & p. p.) of Tingle
Tingling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tingle
Tingle (v. i.) To feel a kind of thrilling sensation, as in hearing a shrill sound.
Tingle (v. i.) To feel a sharp, thrilling pain.
Tingle (v. i.) To have, or to cause, a sharp, thrilling sensation, or a slight pricking sensation.
Tink (v. i.) To make a sharp, shrill noise; to tinkle.
Tink (n.) A sharp, quick sound; a tinkle.
Tinker (n.) A mender of brass kettles, pans, and other metal ware.
Tinker (n.) One skilled in a variety of small mechanical work.
Tinker (n.) A small mortar on the end of a staff.
Tinker (n.) A young mackerel about two years old.
Tinker (n.) The chub mackerel.
Tinker (n.) The silversides.
Tinker (n.) A skate.
Tinker (n.) The razor-billed auk.
Tinkered (imp. & p. p.) of Tinker
Tinkering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tinker
Tinker (v. t.) To mend or solder, as metal wares; hence, more generally, to mend.
Tinker (v. i.) To busy one's self in mending old kettles, pans, etc.; to play the tinker; to be occupied with small mechanical works.
Tinkering (n.) The act or work of a tinker.
Tinkerly (a.) After the manner of a tinker.
Tinkershire (n.) Alt. of Tinkle
Tinkle (n.) The common guillemot.
Tinkle (v. i.) To make, or give forth, small, quick, sharp sounds, as a piece of metal does when struck; to clink.
Tinkle (v. i.) To hear, or resound with, a small, sharp sound.
Tinkled (imp. & p. p.) of Tinkle
Tinkling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tinkle
Tinkle (v. t.) To cause to clonk, or make small, sharp, quick sounds.
Tinkle (n.) A small, sharp, quick sound, as that made by striking metal.
Tinkler (n.) A tinker.
Tinkling (n.) A tinkle, or succession of tinkles.
Tinkling (n.) A grackle (Quiscalus crassirostris) native of Jamaica. It often associates with domestic cattle, and rids them of insects.
Tinmen (pl. ) of Tinman
Tinman (n.) A manufacturer of tin vessels; a dealer in tinware.
Tinmouth (n.) The crappie.
Tinned (a.) Covered, or plated, with tin; as, a tinned roof; tinned iron.
Tinned (a.) Packed in tin cases; canned; as, tinned meats.
Tinnen (a.) Made or consisting of tin.
Tinner (n.) One who works in a tin mine.
Tinner (n.) One who makes, or works in, tinware; a tinman.
Tinnient (a.) Emitting a clear sound.
Tinning (n.) The act, art, or process of covering or coating anything with melted tin, or with tin foil, as kitchen utensils, locks, and the like.
Tinning (n.) The covering or lining of tin thus put on.
Tinnitus (n.) A ringing, whistling, or other imaginary noise perceived in the ears; -- called also tinnitus aurium.
Tinnock (n.) The blue titmouse.
Tinny (a.) Pertaining to, abounding with, or resembling, tin.
Tinsel (n.) A shining material used for ornamental purposes; especially, a very thin, gauzelike cloth with much gold or silver woven into it; also, very thin metal overlaid with a thin coating of gold or silver, brass foil, or the like.
Tinsel (n.) Something shining and gaudy; something superficially shining and showy, or having a false luster, and more gay than valuable.
Tinsel (a.) Showy to excess; gaudy; specious; superficial.
Tinseled (imp. & p. p.) of Tinsel
Tinselled () of Tinsel
Tinseling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tinsel
Tinselling () of Tinsel
Tinsel (v. t.) To adorn with tinsel; to deck out with cheap but showy ornaments; to make gaudy.
Tinselly (a.) Like tinsel; gaudy; showy, but cheap.
Tinselly (adv.) In a showy and cheap manner.
Tinsmith (n.) One who works in tin; a tinner.
Tinstone (n.) Cassiterite.
Tint (n.) A slight coloring.
Tint (n.) A pale or faint tinge of any color.
Tint (n.) A color considered with reference to other very similar colors; as, red and blue are different colors, but two shades of scarlet are different tints.
Tint (n.) A shaded effect produced by the juxtaposition of many fine parallel lines.
Tinted (imp. & p. p.) of Tint
Tinting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tint
Tint (v. t.) To give a slight coloring to; to tinge.
Tintamar (n.) A hideous or confused noise; an uproar.
Tinternell (n.) A certain old dance.
Tintle (n.) The wren.
Tintinnabular (a.) Alt. of Tintinnabulary
Tintinnabulary (a.) Having or making the sound of a bell; tinkling.
Tintinnabulation (n.) A tinkling sound, as of a bell or bells.
Tintinnabulous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the tinkling of a bell; having a tinkling sound; tintinnabular.
Tinto (n.) A red Madeira wine, wanting the high aroma of the white sorts, and, when old, resembling tawny port.
Tintype (n.) Same as Ferrotype.
Tinware (n.) Articles made of tinned iron.
Tiny (superl.) Very small; little; puny.
Tip (n.) The point or extremity of anything; a pointed or somewhat sharply rounded end; the end; as, the tip of the finger; the tip of a spear.
Tip (n.) An end piece or part; a piece, as a cap, nozzle, ferrule, or point, applied to the extreme end of anything; as, a tip for an umbrella, a shoe, a gas burner, etc.
Tip (n.) A piece of stiffened lining pasted on the inside of a hat crown.
Tip (n.) A thin, boarded brush made of camel's hair, used by gilders in lifting gold leaf.
Tip (n.) Rubbish thrown from a quarry.
Tipped (imp. & p. p.) of Tip
Tipping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tip
Tip (v. t.) To form a point upon; to cover the tip, top, or end of; as, to tip anything with gold or silver.
Tip (v. t.) To strike slightly; to tap.
Tip (v. t.) To bestow a gift, or douceur, upon; to give a present to; as, to tip a servant.
Tip (v. t.) To lower one end of, or to throw upon the end; to tilt; as, to tip a cask; to tip a cart.
Tip (v. i.) To fall on, or incline to, one side.
Tip (n.) A light touch or blow; a tap.
Tip (n.) A gift; a douceur; a fee.
Tip (n.) A hint, or secret intimation, as to the chances in a horse race, or the like.
Tipcart (n.) A cart so constructed that the body can be easily tipped, in order to dump the load.
Tipcat (n.) A game in which a small piece of wood pointed at both ends, called a cat, is tipped, or struck with a stick or bat, so as to fly into the air.
Tipper (n.) A kind of ale brewed with brackish water obtained from a particular well; -- so called from the first brewer of it, one Thomas Tipper.
Tippet (n.) A cape, or scarflike garment for covering the neck, or the neck and shoulders, -- usually made of fur, cloth, or other warm material.
Tippet (n.) A length of twisted hair or gut in a fish line.
Tippet (n.) A handful of straw bound together at one end, and used for thatching.
Tipping (n.) A distinct articulation given in playing quick notes on the flute, by striking the tongue against the roof of the mouth; double-tonguing.
Tippled (imp. & p. p.) of Tipple
Tippling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tipple
Tipple (v. i.) To drink spirituous or strong liquors habitually; to indulge in the frequent and improper used of spirituous liquors; especially, to drink frequently in small quantities, but without absolute drunkeness.
Tipple (v. t.) To drink, as strong liquors, frequently or in excess.
Tipple (v. t.) To put up in bundles in order to dry, as hay.
Tipple (n.) Liquor taken in tippling; drink.
Tippled (a.) Intoxicated; inebriated; tipsy; drunk.
Tippler (n.) One who keeps a tippling-house.
Tippler (n.) One who habitually indulges in the excessive use of spirituous liquors, whether he becomes intoxicated or not.
Tippling-house (n.) A house in which liquors are sold in drams or small quantities, to be drunk on the premises.
Tipsify (v. t.) To make tipsy.
Tipsily (adv.) In a tipsy manner; like one tipsy.
Tipsiness (n.) The state of being tipsy.
Tipstaff (pl. ) of Tipstaff
Tipstaff (n.) A staff tipped with metal.
Tipstaff (n.) An officer who bears a staff tipped with metal; a constable.
Tipsy (superl.) Being under the influence of strong drink; rendered weak or foolish by liquor, but not absolutely or completely drunk; fuddled; intoxicated.
Tipsy (superl.) Staggering, as if from intoxication; reeling.
Tiptoes (pl. ) of Tiptoe
Tiptoe (n.) The end, or tip, of the toe.
Tiptoe (a.) Being on tiptoe, or as on tiptoe; hence, raised as high as possible; lifted up; exalted; also, alert.
Tiptoe (a.) Noiseless; stealthy.
Tiptoe (v. i.) To step or walk on tiptoe.
Tiptop (n.) The highest or utmost degree; the best of anything.
Tiptop (a.) Very excellent; most excellent; perfect.
Tipulae (pl. ) of Tipula
Tipulas (pl. ) of Tipula
Tipula (n.) Any one of many species of long-legged dipterous insects belonging to Tipula and allied genera. They have long and slender bodies. See Crane fly, under Crane.
Tipulary (a.) Of or pertaining to the tipulas.
Tip-up (n.) The spotted sandpiper; -- called also teeter-tail. See under Sandpiper.
Tirade (n.) A declamatory strain or flight of censure or abuse; a rambling invective; an oration or harangue abounding in censorious and bitter language.
Tirailleur (n.) Formerly, a member of an independent body of marksmen in the French army. They were used sometimes in front of the army to annoy the enemy, sometimes in the rear to check his pursuit. The term is now applied to all troops acting as skirmishers.
Tire (n.) A tier, row, or rank. See Tier.
Tire (n.) Attire; apparel.
Tire (n.) A covering for the head; a headdress.
Tire (n.) A child's apron, covering the breast and having no sleeves; a pinafore; a tier.
Tire (n.) Furniture; apparatus; equipment.
Tire (n.) A hoop or band, as of metal, on the circumference of the wheel of a vehicle, to impart strength and receive the wear.
Tire (v. t.) To adorn; to attire; to dress.
Tire (v. i.) To seize, pull, and tear prey, as a hawk does.
Tire (v. i.) To seize, rend, or tear something as prey; to be fixed upon, or engaged with, anything.
Tired (imp. & p. p.) of Tire
Tiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tire
Tire (v. i.) To become weary; to be fatigued; to have the strength fail; to have the patience exhausted; as, a feeble person soon tires.
Tire (v. t.) To exhaust the strength of, as by toil or labor; to exhaust the patience of; to wear out (one's interest, attention, or the like); to weary; to fatigue; to jade.
Tired (a.) Weary; fatigued; exhausted.
Tiredness (n.) The state of being tired, or weary.
Tireless (a.) Untiring.
Tireling (a.) Tired; fatigued.
Tiresome (a.) Fitted or tending to tire; exhausted; wearisome; fatiguing; tedious; as, a tiresome journey; a tiresome discourse.
Tire-women (pl. ) of Tire-woman
Tire-woman (n.) A lady's maid.
Tire-woman (n.) A dresser in a theater.
Tiring-house (n.) A tiring-room.
Tiring-room (n.) The room or place where players dress for the stage.
Tirma (n.) The oyster catcher.
Tiro (n.) Same as Tyro.
T iron () See under T.
Tironian (a.) Of or pertaining to Tiro, or a system of shorthand said to have been introduced by him into ancient Rome.
Tirralirra (n.) A verbal imitation of a musical sound, as of the note of a lark or a horn.
Tirrit (n.) A word from the vocabulary of Mrs. Quickly, the hostess in Shakespeare's Henry IV., probably meaning terror.
Tirwit (n.) The lapwing.
'T is () A common contraction of it is.
Tisane (n.) See Ptisan.
Tisar (n.) The fireplace at the side of an annealing oven.
Tisic (a.) Alt. of Tisical
Tisical (a.) Consumptive, phthisical.
Tisic (n.) Consumption; phthisis. See Phthisis.
Tisicky (a.) Consumptive, phthisical.
Tisri (n.) The seventh month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering to a part of September with a part of October.
Tissue (n.) A woven fabric.
Tissue (n.) A fine transparent silk stuff, used for veils, etc.; specifically, cloth interwoven with gold or silver threads, or embossed with figures.
Tissue (n.) One of the elementary materials or fibres, having a uniform structure and a specialized function, of which ordinary animals and plants are composed; a texture; as, epithelial tissue; connective tissue.
Tissue (n.) Fig.: Web; texture; complicated fabrication; connected series; as, a tissue of forgeries, or of falsehood.
Tissued (imp. & p. p.) of Tissue
Tissuing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tissue
Tissue (v. t.) To form tissue of; to interweave.
Tissued (a.) Clothed in, or adorned with, tissue; also, variegated; as, tissued flowers.
Tit (n.) A small horse.
Tit (n.) A woman; -- used in contempt.
Tit (n.) A morsel; a bit.
Tit (n.) Any one of numerous species of small singing birds belonging to the families Paridae and Leiotrichidae; a titmouse.
Tit (n.) The European meadow pipit; a titlark.
Titan (a.) Titanic.
Titanate (n.) A salt of titanic acid.
Titanic (a.) Of or relating to Titans, or fabled giants of ancient mythology; hence, enormous in size or strength; as, Titanic structures.
Titanic (a.) Of or pertaining to titanium; derived from, or containing, titanium; specifically, designating those compounds of titanium in which it has a higher valence as contrasted with the titanous compounds.
Titaniferous (a.) Containing or affording titanium; as, titaniferous magnetite.
Titanite (n.) See Sphene.
Titanitic (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, titanium; as, a titanitic mineral.
Titanium (n.) An elementary substance found combined in the minerals manaccanite, rutile, sphene, etc., and isolated as an infusible iron-gray amorphous powder, having a metallic luster. It burns when heated in the air. Symbol Ti. Atomic weight 48.1.
Titano- () A combining form (also used adjectively) designating certain double compounds of titanium with some other elements; as, titano-cyanide, titano-fluoride, titano-silicate, etc.
Titanotherium (n.) A large American Miocene mammal, allied to the rhinoceros, and more nearly to the extinct Brontotherium.
Titanous (a.) Designating certain compounds of titanium in which that element has a lower valence as contrasted with titanic compounds.
Titbit (n.) Same as Tidbit.
Tith (a.) Tight; nimble.
Tithable (a.) Subject to the payment of tithes; as, tithable lands.
Tithe (n.) A tenth; the tenth part of anything; specifically, the tenthpart of the increase arising from the profits of land and stock, allotted to the clergy for their support, as in England, or devoted to religious or charitable uses. Almost all the tithes of England and Wales are commuted by law into rent charges.
Tithe (n.) Hence, a small part or proportion.
Tithe (a.) Tenth.
Tithed (imp. & p. p.) of Tithe
Tithing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tithe
Tithe (v. t.) To levy a tenth part on; to tax to the amount of a tenth; to pay tithes on.
Tithe (v. i.) Tp pay tithes.
Tither (n.) One who collects tithes.
Tither (n.) One who pays tithes.
Tithing (n.) The act of levying or taking tithes; that which is taken as tithe; a tithe.
Tithing (n.) A number or company of ten householders who, dwelling near each other, were sureties or frankpledges to the king for the good behavior of each other; a decennary.
Tithingmen (pl. ) of Tithingman
Tithingman (n.) The chief man of a tithing; a headborough; one elected to preside over the tithing.
Tithingman (n.) A peace officer; an under constable.
Tithingman (n.) A parish officer elected annually to preserve good order in the church during divine service, to make complaint of any disorderly conduct, and to enforce the observance of the Sabbath.
Tithly (a.) Tightly; nimbly.
Tithonic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or denoting, those rays of light which produce chemical effects; actinic.
Tithonicity (n.) The state or property of being tithonic; actinism.
Tithonographic (a.) Of, relating to, or produced by, the chemical action of rays of light; photographic.
Tithonometer (n.) An instrument or apparatus for measuring or detecting tithonicity; an actinometer.
Tithymal (n.) Any kind of spurge, esp. Euphorbia Cyparissias.
Titi (n.) Same as Teetee.
Titillated (imp. & p. p.) of Titillate
Titillating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Titillate
Titillate (v. t. & i.) To tickle; as, to titillate the nose with a feather.
Titillation (n.) The act of tickling, or the state of being tickled; a tickling sensation.
Titillation (n.) Any pleasurable sensation.
Titillative (a.) Tending or serving to titillate, or tickle; tickling.
Titlark (n.) Any one of numerous small spring birds belonging to Anthus, Corydalla, and allied genera, which resemble the true larks in color and in having a very long hind claw; especially, the European meadow pipit (Anthus pratensis).
Title (n.) An inscription put over or upon anything as a name by which it is known.
Title (n.) The inscription in the beginning of a book, usually containing the subject of the work, the author's and publisher's names, the date, etc.
Title (n.) The panel for the name, between the bands of the back of a book.
Title (n.) A section or division of a subject, as of a law, a book, specif. (Roman & Canon Laws), a chapter or division of a law book.
Title (n.) An appellation of dignity, distinction, or preeminence (hereditary or acquired), given to persons, as duke marquis, honorable, esquire, etc.
Title (n.) A name; an appellation; a designation.
Title (n.) That which constitutes a just cause of exclusive possession; that which is the foundation of ownership of property, real or personal; a right; as, a good title to an estate, or an imperfect title.
Title (n.) The instrument which is evidence of a right.
Title (n.) That by which a beneficiary holds a benefice.
Title (n.) A church to which a priest was ordained, and where he was to reside.
Titled (imp. & p. p.) of Title
Titling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Title
Title (n.) To call by a title; to name; to entitle.
Titled (a.) Having or bearing a title.
Titleless (a.) Not having a title or name; without legitimate title.
Title-page (n.) The page of a book which contains it title.
Titler (n.) A large truncated cone of refined sugar.
Titling (n.) The hedge sparrow; -- called also titlene. Its nest often chosen by the cuckoo as a place for depositing its own eggs.
Titling (n.) The meadow pipit.
Titling (n.) Stockfish; -- formerly so called in customhouses.
Titmal (n.) The blue titmouse.
Titmice (pl. ) of Titmouse
Titmouse (n.) Any one of numerous species of small insectivorous singing birds belonging to Parus and allied genera; -- called also tit, and tomtit.
Titrated (imp. & p. p.) of Titrate
Titrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Titrate
Titrate (n.) To analyse, or determine the strength of, by means of standard solutions. Cf. Standardized solution, under Solution.
Titrated (a.) Standardized; determined or analyzed by titration; as, titrated solutions.
Titration (n.) The act or process of titrating; a substance obtained by titrating.
Tittered (imp. & p. p.) of Titter
Tittering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Titter
Titter (v. t.) To laugh with the tongue striking against the root of the upper teeth; to laugh with restraint, or without much noise; to giggle.
Titter (n.) A restrained laugh.
Titter (v. i.) To seesaw. See Teeter.
Titterel (n.) The whimbrel.
Titter-totter (v. i.) See Teeter.
Tittimouse (n.) Titmouse.
Tittle (n.) A particle; a minute part; a jot; an iota.
Tittlebat (n.) The three-spined stickleback.
Tittle-tattle (n.) Idle, trifling talk; empty prattle.
Tittle-tattle (n.) An idle, trifling talker; a gossip.
Tittle-tattle (v. i.) To talk idly; to prate.
Tittle-tattling (n.) The act or habit of parting idly or gossiping.
Titty (n.) A little teat; a nipple.
Titubate (v. i.) To stumble.
Titubate (v. i.) To rock or roll, as a curved body on a plane.
Titubation (n.) The act of stumbling, rocking, or rolling; a reeling.
Titular (a.) Existing in title or name only; nominal; having the title to an office or dignity without discharging its appropriate duties; as, a titular prince.
Titular (n.) A titulary.
Titularity (n.) The quality or state of being titular.
Titularly (adv.) In a titular manner; nominally; by title only.
Titularies (pl. ) of Titulary
Titulary (n.) A person invested with a title, in virtue of which he holds an office or benefice, whether he performs the duties of it or not.
Titulary (a.) Consisting in a title; titular.
Titulary (a.) Of or pertaining to a title.
Tituled (a.) Having a title.
Tiver (n.) A kind of ocher which is used in some parts of England in marking sheep.
Tiver (v. t.) To mark with tiver.
Tivy (adv.) With great speed; -- a huntsman's word or sound.
Tiza (n.) See Ulexite.
Tmesis (n.) The separation of the parts of a compound word by the intervention of one or more words; as, in what place soever, for whatsoever place.
To- (prep.) An obsolete intensive prefix used in the formation of compound verbs; as in to-beat, to-break, to-hew, to-rend, to-tear. See these words in the Vocabulary. See the Note on All to, or All-to, under All, adv.
To (prep.) The preposition to primarily indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a place or thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to from.
To (prep.) Hence, it indicates motion, course, or tendency toward a time, a state or condition, an aim, or anything capable of being regarded as a limit to a tendency, movement, or action; as, he is going to a trade; he is rising to wealth and honor.
To (prep.) In a very general way, and with innumerable varieties of application, to connects transitive verbs with their remoter or indirect object, and adjectives, nouns, and neuter or passive verbs with a following noun which limits their action. Its sphere verges upon that of for, but it contains less the idea of design or appropriation; as, these remarks were addressed to a large audience; let us keep this seat to ourselves; a substance sweet to the taste; an event painful to the mind; duty to God and to our parents; a dislike to spirituous liquor.
To (prep.) As sign of the infinitive, to had originally the use of last defined, governing the infinitive as a verbal noun, and connecting it as indirect object with a preceding verb or adjective; thus, ready to go, i.e., ready unto going; good to eat, i.e., good for eating; I do my utmost to lead my life pleasantly. But it has come to be the almost constant prefix to the infinitive, even in situations where it has no prepositional meaning, as where the infinitive is direct object or subject; thus, I love to learn, i.e., I love learning; to die for one's country is noble, i.e., the dying for one's country. Where the infinitive denotes the design or purpose, good usage formerly allowed the prefixing of for to the to; as, what went ye out for see? (Matt. xi. 8).
To (prep.) In many phrases, and in connection with many other words, to has a pregnant meaning, or is used elliptically.
To (prep.) Extent; limit; degree of comprehension; inclusion as far as; as, they met us to the number of three hundred.
To (prep.) Effect; end; consequence; as, the prince was flattered to his ruin; he engaged in a war to his cost; violent factions exist to the prejudice of the state.
To (prep.) Apposition; connection; antithesis; opposition; as, they engaged hand to hand.
To (prep.) Accord; adaptation; as, an occupation to his taste; she has a husband to her mind.
To (prep.) Comparison; as, three is to nine as nine is to twenty-seven; it is ten to one that you will offend him.
To (prep.) Addition; union; accumulation.
To (prep.) Accompaniment; as, she sang to his guitar; they danced to the music of a piano.
To (prep.) Character; condition of being; purpose subserved or office filled.
Toad (n.) Any one of numerous species of batrachians belonging to the genus Bufo and allied genera, especially those of the family Bufonidae. Toads are generally terrestrial in their habits except during the breeding season, when they seek the water. Most of the species burrow beneath the earth in the daytime and come forth to feed on insects at night. Most toads have a rough, warty skin in which are glands that secrete an acrid fluid.
Toadeater (n.) A fawning, obsequious parasite; a mean sycophant; a flatterer; a toady.
Toadfish (n.) Any marine fish of the genus Batrachus, having a large, thick head and a wide mouth, and bearing some resemblance to a toad. The American species (Batrachus tau) is very common in shallow water. Called also oyster fish, and sapo.
Toadfish (n.) The angler.
Toadfish (n.) A swellfish.
Toadflax (n.) An herb (Linaria vulgaris) of the Figwort family, having narrow leaves and showy orange and yellow flowers; -- called also butter and eggs, flaxweed, and ramsted.
Toadhead (n.) The golden plover.
Toadish (a.) Like a toad.
Toadlet (n.) A small toad.
Toadstone (n.) A local name for the igneous rocks of Derbyshire, England; -- said by some to be derived from the German todter stein, meaning dead stone, that is, stone which contains no ores.
Toadstone (n.) Bufonite, formerly regarded as a precious stone, and worn as a jewel. See Bufonite.
Toadstool (n.) A name given to many umbrella-shaped fungi, mostly of the genus Agaricus. The species are almost numberless. They grow on decaying organic matter.
Toadies (pl. ) of Toady
Toady (n.) A mean flatterer; a toadeater; a sycophant.
Toady (n.) A coarse, rustic woman.
Toadied (imp. & p. p.) of Toady
Toadying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toady
Toady (v. t.) To fawn upon with mean sycophancy.
Toadyism (n.) The practice of meanly fawning on another; base sycophancy; servile adulation.
Toasted (imp. & p. p.) of Toast
Toasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toast
Toast (v. t.) To dry and brown by the heat of a fire; as, to toast bread.
Toast (v. t.) To warm thoroughly; as, to toast the feet.
Toast (v. t.) To name when a health is proposed to be drunk; to drink to the health, or in honor, of; as, to toast a lady.
Toast (v.) Bread dried and browned before a fire, usually in slices; also, a kind of food prepared by putting slices of toasted bread into milk, gravy, etc.
Toast (v.) A lady in honor of whom persons or a company are invited to drink; -- so called because toasts were formerly put into the liquor, as a great delicacy.
Toast (v.) Hence, any person, especially a person of distinction, in honor of whom a health is drunk; hence, also, anything so commemorated; a sentiment, as "The land we live in," "The day we celebrate," etc.
Toaster (n.) One who toasts.
Toaster (n.) A kitchen utensil for toasting bread, cheese, etc.
Toasting () a. & n. from Toast, v.
Toastmaster (n.) A person who presides at a public dinner or banquet, and announces the toasts.
Toat (n.) The handle of a joiner's plane.
Tobacco (n.) An American plant (Nicotiana Tabacum) of the Nightshade family, much used for smoking and chewing, and as snuff. As a medicine, it is narcotic, emetic, and cathartic. Tobacco has a strong, peculiar smell, and an acrid taste.
Tobacco (n.) The leaves of the plant prepared for smoking, chewing, etc., by being dried, cured, and manufactured in various ways.
Tobacconing (n.) Smoking tobacco.
Tobacconist (n.) A dealer in tobacco; also, a manufacturer of tobacco.
Tobacconist (n.) A smoker of tobacco.
To-beat (v. t.) To beat thoroughly or severely.
Tobias fish () The lant, or sand eel.
Tobine (n.) A stout twilled silk used for dresses.
Tobit (n.) A book of the Apocrypha.
Toboggan (n.) A kind of sledge made of pliable board, turned up at one or both ends, used for coasting down hills or prepared inclined planes; also, a sleigh or sledge, to be drawn by dogs, or by hand, over soft and deep snow.
Tobogganed (imp. & p. p.) of Toboggan
Tobogganing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toboggan
Toboggan (v. i.) To slide down hill over the snow or ice on a toboggan.
Tobogganer (n.) Alt. of Tobogganist
Tobogganist (n.) One who practices tobogganing.
To-break (v. t.) To break completely; to break in pieces.
To-brest (v. t.) To burst or break in pieces.
Toccata (n.) An old form of piece for the organ or harpsichord, somewhat in the free and brilliant style of the prelude, fantasia, or capriccio.
Tocher (n.) Dowry brought by a bride to her husband.
Tockay (n.) A spotted lizard native of India.
Toco (n.) A toucan (Ramphastos toco) having a very large beak. See Illust. under Toucan.
Tocology (n.) The science of obstetrics, or midwifery; that department of medicine which treats of parturition.
Tocororo (n.) A cuban trogon (Priotelus temnurus) having a serrated bill and a tail concave at the end.
Tocsin (n.) An alarm bell, or the ringing of a bell for the purpose of alarm.
Tod (n.) A bush; a thick shrub; a bushy clump.
Tod (n.) An old weight used in weighing wool, being usually twenty-eight pounds.
Tod (n.) A fox; -- probably so named from its bushy tail.
Tod (v. t. & i.) To weigh; to yield in tods.
To-day (prep.) On this day; on the present day.
To-day (n.) The present day.
Toddled (imp. & p. p.) of Toddle
Toddling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toddle
Toddle (v. i.) To walk with short, tottering steps, as a child.
Toddle (n.) A toddling walk.
Toddler (n.) One who toddles; especially, a young child.
Toddy (n.) A juice drawn from various kinds of palms in the East Indies; or, a spirituous liquor procured from it by fermentation.
Toddy (n.) A mixture of spirit and hot water sweetened.
To-do (n.) Bustle; stir; commotion; ado.
Tody (n.) Any one of several species of small insectivorous West Indian birds of the genus Todus. They are allied to the kingfishers.
Toe (n.) One of the terminal members, or digits, of the foot of a man or an animal.
Toe (n.) The fore part of the hoof or foot of an animal.
Toe (n.) Anything, or any part, corresponding to the toe of the foot; as, the toe of a boot; the toe of a skate.
Toe (n.) The journal, or pivot, at the lower end of a revolving shaft or spindle, which rests in a step.
Toe (n.) A lateral projection at one end, or between the ends, of a piece, as a rod or bolt, by means of which it is moved.
Toe (n.) A projection from the periphery of a revolving piece, acting as a cam to lift another piece.
Toed (imp. & p. p.) of Toe
Toeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toe
Toe (v. t.) To touch or reach with the toes; to come fully up to; as, to toe the mark.
Toe (v. i.) To hold or carry the toes (in a certain way).
Toed (a.) Having (such or so many) toes; -- chiefly used in composition; as, narrow-toed, four-toed.
Toed (a.) Having the end secured by nails driven obliquely, said of a board, plank, or joist serving as a brace, and in general of any part of a frame secured to other parts by diagonal nailing.
To-fall (n.) A lean-to. See Lean-to.
Toffee (n.) Alt. of Toffy
Toffy (n.) Taffy.
Tofore (prep.) Alt. of Toforn
Toforn (prep.) Before.
Toft (n.) A knoll or hill.
Toft (n.) A grove of trees; also, a plain.
Toft (n.) A place where a messuage has once stood; the site of a burnt or decayed house.
Toftmen (pl. ) of Toftman
Toftman (n.) The owner of a toft. See Toft, 3.
Tofus (n.) Tophus.
Tofus (n.) Tufa. See under Tufa, and Toph.
Togas (pl. ) of Toga
Togae (pl. ) of Toga
Toga (n.) The loose outer garment worn by the ancient Romans, consisting of a single broad piece of woolen cloth of a shape approaching a semicircle. It was of undyed wool, except the border of the toga praetexta.
Togated (a.) Dressed in a toga or gown; wearing a gown; gowned.
Toged (a.) Togated.
Together (prep.) In company or association with respect to place or time; as, to live together in one house; to live together in the same age; they walked together to the town.
Together (prep.) In or into union; into junction; as, to sew, knit, or fasten two things together; to mix things together.
Together (prep.) In concert; with mutual cooperation; as, the allies made war upon France together.
Toggery (n.) Clothes; garments; dress; as, fishing toggery.
Toggle (n.) A wooden pin tapering toward both ends with a groove around its middle, fixed transversely in the eye of a rope to be secured to any other loop or bight or ring; a kind of button or frog capable of being readily engaged and disengaged for temporary purposes.
Toggle (n.) Two rods or plates connected by a toggle joint.
Toght (a.) Taut.
Togider (adv.) Alt. of Togidres
Togidres (adv.) Together.
Togue (n.) The namaycush.
Tohew (v. t.) To hew in pieces.
Toil (n.) A net or snare; any thread, web, or string spread for taking prey; -- usually in the plural.
Toiled (imp. & p. p.) of Toil
Toiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toil
Toil (v. i.) To exert strength with pain and fatigue of body or mind, especially of the body, with efforts of some continuance or duration; to labor; to work.
Toil (v. t.) To weary; to overlabor.
Toil (v. t.) To labor; to work; -- often with out.
Toil (v.) Labor with pain and fatigue; labor that oppresses the body or mind, esp. the body.
Toiler (n.) One who toils, or labors painfully.
Toilet (n.) A covering of linen, silk, or tapestry, spread over a table in a chamber or a dressing room.
Toilet (n.) A dressing table.
Toilet (n.) Act or mode of dressing, or that which is arranged in dressing; attire; dress; as, her toilet is perfect.
Toilette (n.) See Toilet, 3.
Toilful (a.) Producing or involving much toil; laborious; toilsome; as, toilful care.
Toilinette (n.) A cloth, the weft of which is of woolen yarn, and the warp of cotton and silk, -- used for waistcoats.
Toilless (a.) Free from toil.
Toilsome (a.) Attended with toil, or fatigue and pain; laborious; wearisome; as, toilsome work.
Toise (a.) An old measure of length in France, containing six French feet, or about 6.3946 French feet.
Tokay (n.) A grape of an oval shape and whitish color.
Tokay (n.) A rich Hungarian wine made from Tokay grapes.
Token (n.) Something intended or supposed to represent or indicate another thing or an event; a sign; a symbol; as, the rainbow is a token of God's covenant established with Noah.
Token (n.) A memorial of friendship; something by which the friendship of another person is to be kept in mind; a memento; a souvenir.
Token (n.) Something given or shown as a symbol or guarantee of authority or right; a sign of authenticity, of power, good faith, etc.
Token (n.) A piece of metal intended for currency, and issued by a private party, usually bearing the name of the issuer, and redeemable in lawful money. Also, a coin issued by government, esp. when its use as lawful money is limited and its intrinsic value is much below its nominal value.
Token (n.) A livid spot upon the body, indicating, or supposed to indicate, the approach of death.
Token (n.) Ten and a half quires, or, commonly, 250 sheets, of paper printed on both sides; also, in some cases, the same number of sheets printed on one side, or half the number printed on both sides.
Token (n.) A piece of metal given beforehand to each person in the congregation who is permitted to partake of the Lord's Supper.
Token (n.) A bit of leather having a peculiar mark designating a particular miner. Each hewer sends one of these with each corf or tub he has hewn.
Tokened (imp. & p. p.) of Token
Tokening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Token
Token (n.) To betoken.
Tokened (a.) Marked by tokens, or spots; as, the tokened pestilence.
Tokenless (a.) Without a token.
Tokin (n.) A tocsin.
Tol (v. t.) To take away. See Toll.
Tola (n.) A weight of British India. The standard tola is equal to 180 grains.
Tolane (n.) A hydrocarbon, C14H10, related both to the acetylene and the aromatic series, and produced artificially as a white crystalline substance; -- called also diphenyl acetylene.
Tolbooth (n.) See Tollbooth.
Told () imp. & p. p. of Tell.
Toled (imp. & p. p.) of Tole
Toling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tole
Tole (v. t.) To draw, or cause to follow, by displaying something pleasing or desirable; to allure by some bait.
Toledo (n.) A sword or sword blade made at Toledo in Spain, which city was famous in the 16th and 17th centuries for the excellence of its weapons.
Tolerabolity (n.) The quality or state of being tolerable.
Tolerable (a.) Capable of being borne or endured; supportable, either physically or mentally.
Tolerable (a.) Moderately good or agreeable; not contemptible; not very excellent or pleasing, but such as can be borne or received without disgust, resentment, or opposition; passable; as, a tolerable administration; a tolerable entertainment; a tolerable translation.
Tolerance (n.) The power or capacity of enduring; the act of enduring; endurance.
Tolerance (n.) The endurance of the presence or actions of objectionable persons, or of the expression of offensive opinions; toleration.
Tolerance (n.) The power possessed or acquired by some persons of bearing doses of medicine which in ordinary cases would prove injurious or fatal.
Tolerant (a.) Inclined to tolerate; favoring toleration; forbearing; indulgent.
Tolerated (imp. & p. p.) of Tolerate
Tolerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tolerate
Tolerate (v. t.) To suffer to be, or to be done, without prohibition or hindrance; to allow or permit negatively, by not preventing; not to restrain; to put up with; as, to tolerate doubtful practices.
Toleration (n.) The act of tolerating; the allowance of that which is not wholly approved.
Toleration (n.) Specifically, the allowance of religious opinions and modes of worship in a state when contrary to, or different from, those of the established church or belief.
Toleration (n.) Hence, freedom from bigotry and severity in judgment of the opinions or belief of others, especially in respect to religious matters.
Toll (v. t.) To take away; to vacate; to annul.
Toll (v. t.) To draw; to entice; to allure. See Tole.
Toll (v. t.) To cause to sound, as a bell, with strokes slowly and uniformly repeated; as, to toll the funeral bell.
Toll (v. t.) To strike, or to indicate by striking, as the hour; to ring a toll for; as, to toll a departed friend.
Toll (v. t.) To call, summon, or notify, by tolling or ringing.
Tolled (imp. & p. p.) of Toll
Tolling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toll
Toll (v. i.) To sound or ring, as a bell, with strokes uniformly repeated at intervals, as at funerals, or in calling assemblies, or to announce the death of a person.
Toll (n.) The sound of a bell produced by strokes slowly and uniformly repeated.
Toll (n.) A tax paid for some liberty or privilege, particularly for the privilege of passing over a bridge or on a highway, or for that of vending goods in a fair, market, or the like.
Toll (n.) A liberty to buy and sell within the bounds of a manor.
Toll (n.) A portion of grain taken by a miller as a compensation for grinding.
Toll (v. i.) To pay toll or tallage.
Toll (v. i.) To take toll; to raise a tax.
Toll (v. t.) To collect, as a toll.
Tollable (a.) Subject to the payment of toll; as, tollable goods.
Tollage (n.) Payment of toll; also, the amount or quantity paid as toll.
Tollbooth (n.) A place where goods are weighed to ascertain the duties or toll.
Tollbooth (n.) In Scotland, a burgh jail; hence, any prison, especially a town jail.
Tollbooth (v. t.) To imprison in a tollbooth.
Toller (n.) A toll gatherer.
Toller (n.) One who tolls a bell.
Tolletane (a.) Of or pertaining to Toledo in Spain; made in Toledo.
Tollgate (n.) A gate where toll is taken.
Tollhouses (pl. ) of Tollhouse
Tollhouse (n.) A house occupied by a receiver of tolls.
Tollmen (pl. ) of Tollman
Tollman (n.) One who receives or collects toll; a toll gatherer.
Tolmen (n.) See Dolmen.
Tolsester (n.) A toll or tribute of a sextary of ale, paid to the lords of some manors by their tenants, for liberty to brew and sell ale.
Tolsey (n.) A tollbooth; also, a merchants' meeting place, or exchange.
Tolt (n.) A writ by which a cause pending in a court baron was removed into a country court.
Toltec (n.) One of a race which formerly occupied Mexico.
Tolu (n.) A fragrant balsam said to have been first brought from Santiago de Tolu, in New Granada. See Balsam of Tolu, under Balsam.
Toluate (n.) A salt of any one of the toluic acids.
Toluene (n.) A hydrocarbon, C6H5.CH3, of the aromatic series, homologous with benzene, and obtained as a light mobile colorless liquid, by distilling tolu balsam, coal tar, etc.; -- called also methyl benzene, phenyl methane, etc.
Toluenyl (n.) Tolyl.
Toluic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, one of three metameric acids, CH3.C6H4.CO2H, which are related to toluene and analogous to benzoic acids. They are white crystalline substances, and are called respectively orthotoluic acid, metatoluic acid, and paratoluic acid.
Toluid (n.) A complex double tolyl and toluidine derivative of glycocoll, obtained as a white crystalline substance.
Toluidine (n.) Any one of three metameric amido derivatives of toluene analogous to aniline, and called respectively orthtoluidine, metatoluidine, and paratoluidine; especially, the commonest one, or paratoluidine, which is obtained as a white crystalline substance.
Toluol (n.) Alt. of Toluole
Toluole (n.) Same as Toluene.
Toluric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, any one of three isomeric crystalline acids, C9H10ON.CO2H, which are toluyl derivatives of glycocoll.
Tolutation (n.) A pacing or ambling.
Toluyl (n.) Any one of the three hypothetical radicals corresponding to the three toluic acids.
Toluylene (n.) Same as Stilbene.
Toluylene (n.) Sometimes, but less properly, tolylene.
Tolyl (n.) The hydrocarbon radical, CH3.C6H4, regarded as characteristic of certain compounds of the aromatic series related to toluene; as, tolyl carbinol.
Tolylene (n.) A hydrocarbon radical, C6H4.(CH2)2, regarded as characteristic of certain toluene derivatives.
Tolypeutine (n.) The apar.
Tom (n.) The knave of trumps at gleek.
Tomahawk (n.) A kind of war hatchet used by the American Indians. It was originally made of stone, but afterwards of iron.
Tomahawked (imp. & p. p.) of Tomahawk
Tomahawking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tomahawk
Tomahawk (v. t.) To cut, strike, or kill, with a tomahawk.
Tomaley (n.) The liver of the lobster, which becomes green when boiled; -- called also tomalline.
Toman (n.) A money of account in Persia, whose value varies greatly at different times and places. Its average value may be reckoned at about two and a half dollars.
Tomatoes (pl. ) of Tomato
Tomato (n.) The fruit of a plant of the Nightshade family (Lycopersicum esculentun); also, the plant itself. The fruit, which is called also love apple, is usually of a rounded, flattened form, but often irregular in shape. It is of a bright red or yellow color, and is eaten either cooked or uncooked.
Tomb (n.) A pit in which the dead body of a human being is deposited; a grave; a sepulcher.
Tomb (n.) A house or vault, formed wholly or partly in the earth, with walls and a roof, for the reception of the dead.
Tomb (n.) A monument erected to inclose the body and preserve the name and memory of the dead.
Tombed (imp. & p. p.) of Tomb
Tombing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tomb
Tomb (v. t.) To place in a tomb; to bury; to inter; to entomb.
Tombac (n.) An alloy of copper and zinc, resembling brass, and containing about 84 per cent of copper; -- called also German, / Dutch, brass. It is very malleable and ductile, and when beaten into thin leaves is sometimes called Dutch metal. The addition of arsenic makes white tombac.
Tombester (n.) A female dancer.
Tombless (a.) Destitute of a tomb.
Tomboy (n.) A romping girl; a hoiden.
Tombstone (n.) A stone erected over a grave, to preserve the memory of the deceased.
Tomcat (n.) A male cat, especially when full grown or of large size.
Tomcod (n.) A small edible American fish (Microgadus tomcod) of the Codfish family, very abundant in autumn on the Atlantic coast of the Northen United States; -- called also frostfish. See Illust. under Frostfish.
Tomcod (n.) The kingfish. See Kingfish (a).
Tomcod (n.) The jack. See 2d Jack, 8. (c).
Tome (n.) As many writings as are bound in a volume, forming part of a larger work; a book; -- usually applied to a ponderous volume.
Tomelet (n.) All small tome, or volume.
Tomentose (a.) Covered with matted woolly hairs; as, a tomentose leaf; a tomentose leaf; a tomentose membrane.
Tometous (a.) Tomentose.
Tomenta (pl. ) of Tomentum
Tomentum (n.) The closely matted hair or downy nap covering the leaves or stems of some plants.
Tomfool (n.) A great fool; a trifler.
Tomfoolery (n.) Folly; trifling.
Tomia (pl. ) of Tomium
Tomium (n.) The cutting edge of the bill of a bird.
Tomjohn (n.) A kind of open sedan used in Ceylon, carried by a single pole on men's shoulders.
Tommy (n.) Bread, -- generally a penny roll; the supply of food carried by workmen as their daily allowance.
Tommy (n.) A truck, or barter; the exchange of labor for goods, not money.
Tomnoddy (n.) A sea bird, the puffin.
Tomnoddy (n.) A fool; a dunce; a noddy.
Tomopteris (n.) A genus of transparent marine annelids which swim actively at the surface of the sea. They have deeply divided or forked finlike organs (parapodia). This genus is the type of the order, or suborder, Gymnocopa.
Tomorn (adv.) To-morrow.
Tomorrow (adv.) On the day after the present day; on the next day; on the morrow.
Tomorrow (n.) The day after the present; the morrow.
Tompion (n.) A stopper of a cannon or a musket. See Tampion.
Tompion (n.) A plug in a flute or an organ pipe, to modulate the tone.
Tompion (n.) The iron bottom to which grapeshot are fixed.
Tompon (n.) An inking pad used in lithographic printing.
Tomrig (n.) A rude, wild, wanton girl; a hoiden; a tomboy.
Tomtit (n.) A titmouse, esp. the blue titmouse.
Tomtit (n.) The wren.
Tom-tom (n.) See Tam-tam.
Ton () pl. of Toe.
Ton (n.) The common tunny, or house mackerel.
Ton (n.) The prevailing fashion or mode; vogue; as, things of ton.
Ton (n.) A measure of weight or quantity.
Ton (n.) The weight of twenty hundredweight.
Ton (n.) Forty cubic feet of space, being the unit of measurement of the burden, or carrying capacity, of a vessel; as a vessel of 300 tons burden.
Ton (n.) A certain weight or quantity of merchandise, with reference to transportation as freight; as, six hundred weight of ship bread in casks, seven hundred weight in bags, eight hundred weight in bulk; ten bushels of potatoes; eight sacks, or ten barrels, of flour; forty cubic feet of rough, or fifty cubic feet of hewn, timber, etc.
Tonality (n.) The principle of key in music; the character which a composition has by virtue of the key in which it is written, or through the family relationship of all its tones and chords to the keynote, or tonic, of the whole.
To-name (n.) A name added, for the sake of distinction, to one's surname, or used instead of it.
Tonca bean () See Tonka bean.
Tone (n.) Sound, or the character of a sound, or a sound considered as of this or that character; as, a low, high, loud, grave, acute, sweet, or harsh tone.
Tone (n.) Accent, or inflection or modulation of the voice, as adapted to express emotion or passion.
Tone (n.) A whining style of speaking; a kind of mournful or artificial strain of voice; an affected speaking with a measured rhythm ahd a regular rise and fall of the voice; as, children often read with a tone.
Tone (n.) A sound considered as to pitch; as, the seven tones of the octave; she has good high tones.
Tone (n.) The larger kind of interval between contiguous sounds in the diatonic scale, the smaller being called a semitone as, a whole tone too flat; raise it a tone.
Tone (n.) The peculiar quality of sound in any voice or instrument; as, a rich tone, a reedy tone.
Tone (n.) A mode or tune or plain chant; as, the Gregorian tones.
Tone (n.) That state of a body, or of any of its organs or parts, in which the animal functions are healthy and performed with due vigor.
Tone (n.) Tonicity; as, arterial tone.
Tone (n.) State of mind; temper; mood.
Tone (n.) Tenor; character; spirit; drift; as, the tone of his remarks was commendatory.
Tone (n.) General or prevailing character or style, as of morals, manners, or sentiment, in reference to a scale of high and low; as, a low tone of morals; a tone of elevated sentiment; a courtly tone of manners.
Tone (n.) The general effect of a picture produced by the combination of light and shade, together with color in the case of a painting; -- commonly used in a favorable sense; as, this picture has tone.
Toned (imp. & p. p.) of Tone
Toning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tone
Tone (v. t.) To utter with an affected tone.
Tone (v. t.) To give tone, or a particular tone, to; to tune. See Tune, v. t.
Tone (v. t.) To bring, as a print, to a certain required shade of color, as by chemical treatment.
Toned (a.) Having (such) a tone; -- chiefly used in composition; as, high-toned; sweet-toned.
Toneless (a.) Having no tone; unmusical.
Tong (n.) Alt. of Tonge
Tonge (n.) Tongue.
Tonga (n.) A drug useful in neuralgia, derived from a Fijian plant supposed to be of the aroid genus Epipremnum.
Tongkang (n.) A kind of boat or junk used in the seas of the Malay Archipelago.
Tongo (n.) The mangrove; -- so called in the Pacific Islands.
Tongs (n. pl.) An instrument, usually of metal, consisting of two parts, or long shafts, jointed together at or near one end, or united by an elastic bow, used for handling things, especially hot coals or metals; -- often called a pair of tongs.
Tongue (n.) an organ situated in the floor of the mouth of most vertebrates and connected with the hyoid arch.
Tongue (n.) The power of articulate utterance; speech.
Tongue (n.) Discourse; fluency of speech or expression.
Tongue (n.) Honorable discourse; eulogy.
Tongue (n.) A language; the whole sum of words used by a particular nation; as, the English tongue.
Tongue (n.) Speech; words or declarations only; -- opposed to thoughts or actions.
Tongue (n.) A people having a distinct language.
Tongue (n.) The lingual ribbon, or odontophore, of a mollusk.
Tongue (n.) The proboscis of a moth or a butterfly.
Tongue (n.) The lingua of an insect.
Tongue (n.) Any small sole.
Tongue (n.) That which is considered as resembing an animal's tongue, in position or form.
Tongue (n.) A projection, or slender appendage or fixture; as, the tongue of a buckle, or of a balance.
Tongue (n.) A projection on the side, as of a board, which fits into a groove.
Tongue (n.) A point, or long, narrow strip of land, projecting from the mainland into a sea or a lake.
Tongue (n.) The pole of a vehicle; especially, the pole of an ox cart, to the end of which the oxen are yoked.
Tongue (n.) The clapper of a bell.
Tongue (n.) A short piece of rope spliced into the upper part of standing backstays, etc.; also. the upper main piece of a mast composed of several pieces.
Tongue (n.) Same as Reed, n., 5.
Tongued (imp. & p. p.) of Tongue
Tonguing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tongue
Tongue (v. t.) To speak; to utter.
Tongue (v. t.) To chide; to scold.
Tongue (v. t.) To modulate or modify with the tongue, as notes, in playing the flute and some other wind instruments.
Tongue (v. t.) To join means of a tongue and grove; as, to tongue boards together.
Tongue (v. i.) To talk; to prate.
Tongue (v. i.) To use the tongue in forming the notes, as in playing the flute and some other wind instruments.
Tonguebird (n.) The wryneck.
Tongued (a.) Having a tongue.
Tonguefish (n.) A flounder (Symphurus plagiusa) native of the southern coast of the United States.
Tongueless (a.) Having no tongue.
Tongueless (a.) Hence, speechless; mute.
Tongueless (a.) Unnamed; not spoken of.
Tonguelet (n.) A little tongue.
Tongue-pad (n.) A great talker.
Tongue-shaped (a.) Shaped like a tongue; specifically (Bot.), linear or oblong, and fleshy, blunt at the end, and convex beneath; as, a tongue-shaped leaf.
Tongue-shell (n.) Any species of Lingula.
Tonguester (n.) One who uses his tongue; a talker; a story-teller; a gossip.
Tongue-tie (n.) Impeded motion of the tongue because of the shortness of the fraenum, or of the adhesion of its margins to the gums.
Tongue-tie (v. t.) To deprive of speech or the power of speech, or of distinct articulation.
Tongue-tied (a.) Destitute of the power of distinct articulation; having an impediment in the speech, esp. when caused by a short fraenum.
Tongue-tied (a.) Unable to speak freely, from whatever cause.
Tongueworm (n.) Any species of Linguatulina.
Tonguy (a.) Ready or voluble in speaking; as, a tonguy speaker.
Tonic (a.) Of or relating to tones or sounds; specifically (Phon.), applied to, or distingshing, a speech sound made with tone unmixed and undimmed by obstruction, such sounds, namely, the vowels and diphthongs, being so called by Dr. James Rush (1833) " from their forming the purest and most plastic material of intonation."
Tonic (a.) Of or pertaining to tension; increasing tension; hence, increasing strength; as, tonic power.
Tonic (a.) Increasing strength, or the tone of the animal system; obviating the effects of debility, and restoring healthy functions.
Tonic (n.) A tonic element or letter; a vowel or a diphthong.
Tonic (n.) The key tone, or first tone of any scale.
Tonic (n.) A medicine that increases the strength, and gives vigor of action to the system.
Tonical (a.) Tonic.
Tonicity (n.) The state of healthy tension or partial contraction of muscle fibers while at rest; tone; tonus.
Tonight (adv.) On this present or coming night.
Tonight (adv.) On the last night past.
Tonight (n.) The present or the coming night; the night after the present day.
Tonite (n.) An explosive compound; a preparation of gun cotton.
Tonka bean () The seed of a leguminous tree (Dipteryx odorata), native of Guiana. It has a peculiarly agreeable smell, and is employed in the scenting of snuff. Called also tonquin bean.
Tonnage (n.) The weight of goods carried in a boat or a ship.
Tonnage (n.) The cubical content or burden of a vessel, or vessels, in tons; or, the amount of weight which one or several vessels may carry. See Ton, n. (b).
Tonnage (n.) A duty or impost on vessels, estimated per ton, or, a duty, toll, or rate payable on goods per ton transported on canals.
Tonnage (n.) The whole amount of shipping estimated by tons; as, the tonnage of the United States. See Ton.
Tonne (n.) A tun.
Tonnihood (n.) The female of the bullfinch; -- called also tonyhoop.
Tonnish (a.) In the ton; fashionable; modish.
Tonometer (n.) An instrument for determining the rate of vibrations in tones.
Tonometer (n.) An apparatus for studying and registering the action of various fluids and drugs on the excised heart of lower animals.
Tonometer (n.) An instrument for measuring tension, esp. that of the eyeball.
Tonometry (n.) The act of measuring with a tonometer;
Tonometry (n.) measurement of tension, esp. the tension of the eyeball.
Tonophant (n.) A modification of the kaleidophon, for showing composition of acoustic vibrations. It consists of two thin slips of steel welded together, their length being adjystable by a screw socket.
Tonous (a.) Abounding in tone or sound.
Tonquin bean () See Tonka bean.
Tonsil (n.) One of the two glandular organs situated in the throat at the sides of the fauces. The tonsils are sometimes called the almonds, from their shape.
Tonsilar (a.) Of or pertaining to the tonsils; tonsilitic.
Tonsile (a.) Capable of being clipped.
Tonsilitic (a.) Tonsilar.
Tonsilitis (n.) Inflammation of the tonsil; quinsy.
Tonsilotome (n.) An instrument for removing the tonsils.
Tonsilotomy (n.) The operation of removing the tonsil, or a portion thereof.
Tonsor (n.) A barber.
Tonsorial (a.) Of or pertaining to a barber, or shaving.
Tonsure (n.) The act of clipping the hair, or of shaving the crown of the head; also, the state of being shorn.
Tonsure (n.) The first ceremony used for devoting a person to the service of God and the church; the first degree of the clericate, given by a bishop, abbot, or cardinal priest, consisting in cutting off the hair from a circular space at the back of the head, with prayers and benedictions; hence, entrance or admission into minor orders.
Tonsure (n.) The shaven corona, or crown, which priests wear as a mark of their order and of their rank.
Tonsured (a.) Having the tonsure; shaven; shorn; clipped; hence, bald.
Tontine (n.) An annuity, with the benefit of survivorship, or a loan raised on life annuities with the benefit of survivorship. Thus, an annuity is shared among a number, on the principle that the share of each, at his death, is enjoyed by the survivors, until at last the whole goes to the last survivor, or to the last two or three, according to the terms on which the money is advanced. Used also adjectively; as, tontine insurance.
Tonus (n.) Tonicity, or tone; as, muscular tonus.
Tonies (pl. ) of Tony
Tony (n.) A simpleton.
Too (adv.) Over; more than enough; -- noting excess; as, a thing is too long, too short, or too wide; too high; too many; too much.
Too (adv.) Likewise; also; in addition.
Took () imp. of Take.
Tool (n.) An instrument such as a hammer, saw, plane, file, and the like, used in the manual arts, to facilitate mechanical operations; any instrument used by a craftsman or laborer at his work; an implement; as, the tools of a joiner, smith, shoe-maker, etc.; also, a cutter, chisel, or other part of an instrument or machine that dresses work.
Tool (n.) A machine for cutting or shaping materials; -- also called machine tool.
Tool (n.) Hence, any instrument of use or service.
Tool (n.) A weapon.
Tool (n.) A person used as an instrument by another person; -- a word of reproach; as, men of intrigue have their tools, by whose agency they accomplish their purposes.
tooled (imp. & p. p.) of Tool
tooling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tool
Tool (v. t.) To shape, form, or finish with a tool.
Tool (v. t.) To drive, as a coach.
Tooling (n.) Work performed with a tool.
Tool-post (n.) Alt. of Tool-stock
Tool-stock (n.) The part of a tool-rest in which a cutting tool is clamped.
Tool-rest (n.) the part that supports a tool-post or a tool.
Toom (a.) Empty.
Toom (v. t.) To empty.
Toon () pl. of Toe.
Toon (n.) The reddish brown wood of an East Indian tree (Cedrela Toona) closely resembling the Spanish cedar; also. the tree itself.
Toonwood (n.) Same as Toon.
Toot (v. i.) To stand out, or be prominent.
Toot (v. i.) To peep; to look narrowly.
Toot (v. t.) To see; to spy.
Tooted (imp. & p. p.) of Toot
Tooting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toot
Toot (v. i.) To blow or sound a horn; to make similar noise by contact of the tongue with the root of the upper teeth at the beginning and end of the sound; also, to give forth such a sound, as a horn when blown.
Toot (v. t.) To cause to sound, as a horn, the note being modified at the beginning and end as if by pronouncing the letter t; to blow; to sound.
Tooter (n.) One who toots; one who plays upon a pipe or horn.
Teeth (pl. ) of Tooth
Tooth (n.) One of the hard, bony appendages which are borne on the jaws, or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx of most vertebrates, and which usually aid in the prehension and mastication of food.
Tooth (n.) Fig.: Taste; palate.
Tooth (n.) Any projection corresponding to the tooth of an animal, in shape, position, or office; as, the teeth, or cogs, of a cogwheel; a tooth, prong, or tine, of a fork; a tooth, or the teeth, of a rake, a saw, a file, a card.
Tooth (n.) A projecting member resembling a tenon, but fitting into a mortise that is only sunk, not pierced through.
Tooth (n.) One of several steps, or offsets, in a tusk. See Tusk.
Tooth (n.) An angular or prominence on any edge; as, a tooth on the scale of a fish, or on a leaf of a plant
Tooth (n.) one of the appendages at the mouth of the capsule of a moss. See Peristome.
Tooth (n.) Any hard calcareous or chitinous organ found in the mouth of various invertebrates and used in feeding or procuring food; as, the teeth of a mollusk or a starfish.
Toothed (imp. & p. p.) of Tooth
Toothing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tooth
Tooth (v. t.) To furnish with teeth.
Tooth (v. t.) To indent; to jag; as, to tooth a saw.
Tooth (v. t.) To lock into each other. See Tooth, n., 4.
Toothache (n.) Pain in a tooth or in the teeth; odontalgia.
Toothback (n.) Any notodontian.
Toothbill (n.) A peculiar fruit-eating ground pigeon (Didunculus strigiostris) native of the Samoan Islands, and noted for its resemblance, in several characteristics, to the extinct dodo. Its beak is stout and strongly hooked, and the mandible has two or three strong teeth toward the end. Its color is chocolate red. Called also toothbilled pigeon, and manu-mea.
Toothbrush (n.) A brush for cleaning the teeth.
Toothdrawer (n.) One whose business it is to extract teeth with instruments; a dentist.
Toothed (a.) Having teeth; furnished with teeth.
Toothed (a.) Having marginal projecting points; dentate.
Toothful (a.) Toothsome.
Toothing (n.) The act or process of indenting or furnishing with teeth.
Toothing (n.) Bricks alternately projecting at the end of a wall, in order that they may be bonded into a continuation of it when the remainder is carried up.
Toothless (a.) Having no teeth.
Toothlet (n.) A little tooth, or like projection.
Toothleted (a.) Having a toothlet or toothlets; as, a toothleted leaf.
Toothpick (n.) A pointed instument for clearing the teeth of substances lodged between them.
Toothpicker (n.) A toothpick.
Toothshell (n.) Any species of Dentalium and allied genera having a tooth-shaped shell. See Dentalium.
Toothsome (a.) Grateful to the taste; palatable.
Toothwort (n.) A plant whose roots are fancied to resemble teeth, as certain plants of the genus Lathraea, and various species of Dentaria. See Coralwort.
Toothy (a.) Toothed; with teeth.
Toozoo (n.) The ringdove.
Top (n.) A child's toy, commonly in the form of a conoid or pear, made to spin on its point, usually by drawing off a string wound round its surface or stem, the motion being sometimes continued by means of a whip.
Top (n.) A plug, or conical block of wood, with longitudital grooves on its surface, in which the strands of the rope slide in the process of twisting.
Top (n.) The highest part of anything; the upper end, edge, or extremity; the upper side or surface; summit; apex; vertex; cover; lid; as, the top of a spire; the top of a house; the top of a mountain; the top of the ground.
Top (n.) The utmost degree; the acme; the summit.
Top (n.) The highest rank; the most honorable position; the utmost attainable place; as, to be at the top of one's class, or at the top of the school.
Top (n.) The chief person; the most prominent one.
Top (n.) The crown of the head, or the hair upon it; the head.
Top (n.) The head, or upper part, of a plant.
Top (n.) A platform surrounding the head of the lower mast and projecting on all sudes. It serves to spead the topmast rigging, thus strengheningthe mast, and also furnishes a convenient standing place for the men aloft.
Top (n.) A bundle or ball of slivers of comkbed wool, from which the noils, or dust, have been taken out.
Top (n.) Eve; verge; point.
Top (n.) The part of a cut gem between the girdle, or circumference, and the table, or flat upper surface.
Top (n.) Top-boots.
Topped (imp. & p. p.) of Top
Topping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Top
Top (v. i.) To rise aloft; to be eminent; to tower; as, lofty ridges and topping mountains.
Top (v. i.) To predominate; as, topping passions.
Top (v. i.) To excel; to rise above others.
Top (v. t.) To cover on the top; to tip; to cap; -- chiefly used in the past participle.
Top (v. t.) To rise above; to excel; to outgo; to surpass.
Top (v. t.) To rise to the top of; to go over the top of.
Top (v. t.) To take off the or upper part of; to crop.
Top (v. t.) To perform eminently, or better than before.
Top (v. t.) To raise one end of, as a yard, so that that end becomes higher than the other.
Toparch (n.) The ruler or principal man in a place or country; the governor of a toparchy.
Toparchies (pl. ) of Toparchy
Toparchy (n.) A small state, consisting of a few cities or towns; a petty country governed by a toparch; as, Judea was formerly divided into ten toparchies.
Top-armor (n.) A top railing supported by stanchions and equipped with netting.
Topau (n.) The rhinocerous bird (a).
Topaz (n.) A mineral occurring in rhombic prisms, generally yellowish and pellucid, also colorless, and of greenesh, bluish, or brownish shades. It sometimes occurs massive and opaque. It is a fluosilicate of alumina, and is used as a gem.
Topaz (n.) Either one of two species of large, brilliantly colored humming birds of the Topaza, of South America and the West Indies.
Topazolite (n.) A topaz-yellow variety of garnet.
Top-block (n.) A large ironbound block strapped with a hook, and, when used, hung to an eyebolt in the cap, -- used in swaying and lowering the topmast.
Top-boots (n. pl.) High boots, having generally a band of some kind of light-colored leather around the upper part of the leg; riding boots.
Top-chain (n.) A chain for slinging the lower yards, in time of action, to prevent their falling, if the ropes by which they are hung are shot away.
Top-cloth (n.) A piece of canvas used to cover the hammocks which are lashed to the top in action to protect the topmen.
Topcoat (n.) An outer coat; an overcoat.
Top-drain (v. t.) To drain the surface of, as land; as, to top-drain a field or farm.
Top-draining (n.) The act or practice of drining the surface of land.
Top-dressed (imp. & p. p.) of Top-dress
Top-dressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Top-dress
Top-dress (v. t.) To apply a surface dressing of manureto,as land.
Top-dressing (n.) The act of applying a dressing of manure to the surface of land; also, manure so applied.
Tope (n.) A moundlike Buddhist sepulcher, or memorial monument, often erected over a Buddhist relic.
Tope (n.) A grove or clump of trees; as, a toddy tope.
Tope (n.) A small shark or dogfish (Galeorhinus, / Galeus, galeus), native of Europe, but found also on the coasts of California and Tasmania; -- called also toper, oil shark, miller's dog, and penny dog.
Tope (n.) The wren.
Toped (imp. & p. p.) of Tope
Toping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tope
Tope (v. i.) To drink hard or frequently; to drink strong or spiritous liquors to excess.
Toper (n.) One who topes, or drinks frequently or to excess; a drunkard; a sot.
Topet (n.) The European crested titmouse.
Topful (a.) Full to the top, ore brim; brimfull.
Topgallant (a.) Situated above the topmast and below the royal mast; designatb, or pertaining to, the third spars in order from the deck; as, the topgallant mast, yards, braces, and the like. See Illustration of Ship.
Topgallant (a.) Fig.: Highest; elevated; splendid.
Topgallant (n.) A topgallant mast or sail.
Topgallant (n.) Fig.: Anything elevated or splendid.
Toph (n.) kind of sandstone.
Tophaceous (a.) Gritty; sandy; rough; stony.
Top-hamper (n.) The upper rigging, spars, etc., of a ship.
Top-heavy (a.) Having the top or upper part too heavy for the lower part.
Tophet (n.) A place lying east or southeast of Jerusalem, in the valley of Hinnom.
Tophin (n.) Same as Toph.
Tophi (pl. ) of Tophus
Tophus (n.) One of the mineral concretions about the joints, and in other situations, occurring chiefly in gouty persons. They consist usually of urate of sodium; when occurring in the internal organs they are also composed of phosphate of calcium.
Tophus (n.) Calcareous tufa.
Topiarian (a.) Of or pertaining to the ornamental cutting and trimming of trees, hedges, etc.; practicing ornamental gardening.
Topiary (a.) Of or pertaining to ornamental gardening; produced by cutting, trimming, etc.; topiarian.
Topic (n.) One of the various general forms of argument employed in probable as distinguished from demonstrative reasoning, -- denominated by Aristotle to`poi (literally, places), as being the places or sources from which arguments may be derived, or to which they may be referred; also, a prepared form of argument, applicable to a great variety of cases, with a supply of which the ancient rhetoricians and orators provided themselves; a commonplace of argument or oratory.
Topic (n.) A treatise on forms of argument; a system or scheme of forms or commonplaces of argument or oratory; as, the Topics of Aristotle.
Topic (n.) An argument or reason.
Topic (n.) The subject of any distinct portion of a discourse, or argument, or literary composition; also, the general or main subject of the whole; a matter treated of; a subject, as of conversation or of thought; a matter; a point; a head.
Topic (n.) An external local application or remedy, as a plaster, a blister, etc.
Topic (a.) Topical.
Topical (n.) Of or pertaining to a place; limited; logical application; as, a topical remedy; a topical claim or privilege.
Topical (n.) Pertaining to, or consisting of, a topic or topics; according to topics.
Topical (n.) Resembling a topic, or general maxim; hence, not demonstrative, but merely probable, as an argument.
Topically (adv.) In a topical manner; with application to, or limitation of, a particular place or topic.
Topknot (n.) A crest or knot of feathers upon the head or top, as of a bird; also, an orgamental knot worn on top of the head, as by women.
Topknot (n.) A small Europen flounder (Rhoumbus punctatus). The name is also applied to allied species.
Topless (a.) Having no top, or no visble fop; hence, fig.: very lofty; supreme; unequaled.
Top-light (n.) A lantern or light on the top of a vessel.
Topmem (pl. ) of Topman
Topman (n.) See Topsman, 2.
Topman (n.) A man stationed in the top.
Topmast (n.) The second mast, or that which is next above the lower mast, and below the topgallant mast.
Topmost (a.) Highest; uppermost; as, the topmost cliff; the topmost branch of a tree.
Topographer (n.) One who is skilled in the science of topography; one who describes a particular place, town, city, or tract of land.
Topographic () Alt. of Topographical
Topographical () Of or pertaining to topography; descriptive of a place.
Topographist (n.) A topographer.
Topography (n.) The description of a particular place, town, manor, parish, or tract of land; especially, the exact and scientific delineation and description in minute detail of any place or region.
Topology (n.) The art of, or method for, assisting the memory by associating the thing or subject to be remembered with some place.
Toponomy (n.) The designation of position and direction.
Toppiece (n.) A small wig for the top of the head; a toupee.
Topping (a.) Rising above; surpassing.
Topping (a.) Hence, assuming superiority; proud.
Topping (a.) Fine; gallant.
Topping (n.) The act of one who tops; the act of cutting off the top.
Topping (n.) The act of raising one extremity of a spar higher than the other.
Topping (n.) That which comes from hemp in the process of hatcheling.
Toppingly (adv.) In a topping or proud manner.
Toppingly (a.) Same as Topping, a., 3.
Toppled (imp. & p. p.) of Topple
Toppling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Topple
Topple (v. i.) To fall forward; to pitch or tumble down.
Topple (v. t.) To throw down; to overturn.
Top-proud (a.) Proud to the highest degree.
Top-rope (n.) A rope used for hoisting and lowering a topmast, and for other purposes.
Topsail (n.) In a square-rigged vessel, the sail next above the lowermost sail on a mast. This sail is the one most frequently reefed or furled in working the ship. In a fore-and-aft rigged vessel, the sail set upon and above the gaff. See Cutter, Schooner, Sail, and Ship.
Tops-and-bottoms (n. pl.) Small rolls of dough, baked, cut in halves, and then browned in an oven, -- used as food for infants.
Top-shaped (a.) Having the shape of a top; (Bot.) cone-shaped, with the apex downward; turbinate.
Top-shell (n.) Any one of numerous species of marine top-shaped shells of the genus Trochus, or family Trochidae.
Topsmen (pl. ) of Topsman
Topsman (n.) The chief drover of those who drive a herd of cattle.
Topsman (n.) The uppermost sawyer in a saw pit; a topman.
Topsoil (n.) The upper layer of soil; surface soil.
Topsoiling (n.) The act or art of taking off the top soil of land before an excavation or embankment is begun.
Topstone (n.) A stone that is placed on the top, or which forms the top.
Topsy-turvy (adv.) In an inverted posture; with the top or head downward; upside down; as, to turn a carriage topsy-turvy.
Top-tackle (n.) A tackle used in hoisting and lowering the topmast.
Top-timbers (n.) The highest timbers on the side of a vessel, being those above the futtocks.
Top-tool (n.) A tool applied to the top of the work, in distinction from a tool inserted in the anvil and on which the work is placed.
Toque (n.) A kind of cap worn in the 16th century, and copied in modern fashions; -- called also toquet.
Toque (n.) A variety of the bonnet monkey.
Toquet (n.) See Toque, 1.
Tor (n.) A tower; a turret.
Tor (n.) High-pointed hill; a rocky pinnacle.
Torace (v. t.) Alt. of Torase
Torase (v. t.) To scratch to pieces.
Torbernite (n.) A mineral occurring in emerald-green tabular crystals having a micaceous structure. It is a hydrous phosphate of uranium and copper. Called also copper uranite, and chalcolite.
Torc (n.) Same as Torque, 1.
Torch (n.) A light or luminary formed of some combustible substance, as of resinous wood; a large candle or flambeau, or a lamp giving a large, flaring flame.
Torch (n.) A flashlight.
Torchbearer (n.) One whose office it is to carry a torch.
Torcher (n.) One who gives light with a torch, or as if with a torch.
Torchlight (n.) The light of a torch, or of torches. Also adjectively; as, a torchlight procession.
Torchon lace () a simple thread lace worked upon a pillow with coarse thread; also, a similar lace made by machinery.
Torchwood (n.) The inflammable wood of certain trees (Amyris balsamifera, A. Floridana, etc.); also, the trees themselves.
Torchwort (n.) The common mullein, the stalks of which, dipped in suet, anciently served for torches. Called also torch, and hig-taper.
Tore () imp. of Tear.
Tore (n.) The dead grass that remains on mowing land in winter and spring.
Tore (n.) Same as Torus.
Tore (n.) The surface described by the circumference of a circle revolving about a straight line in its own plane.
Tore (n.) The solid inclosed by such a surface; -- sometimes called an anchor ring.
Toreador (n.) A bullfighter.
To-rent (imp. & p. p.) of To-rend
To-rend (v. t.) To rend in pieces.
Toret (n.) A Turret.
Toret (n.) A ring for fastening a hawk's leash to the jesses; also, a ring affixed to the collar of a dog, etc.
Toreumatography (n.) A description of sculpture such as bas-relief in metal.
Toreumatology (n.) The art or the description of scupture such as bas-relief in metal; toreumatography.
Toreutic (a.) In relief; pertaining to sculpture in relief, especially of metal; also, pertaining to chasing such as surface ornamentation in metal.
Torgoch (n.) The saibling.
Torilto (n.) A species of Turnix (Turnix sylvatica) native of Spain and Northen Africa.
Torinese (a.) Of or pertaining to Turin.
Torinese (n. sing. & pl.) A native or inhabitant of Turin; collectively, the people of Turin.
Torment (n.) An engine for casting stones.
Torment (n.) Extreme pain; anguish; torture; the utmost degree of misery, either of body or mind.
Torment (n.) That which gives pain, vexation, or misery.
tormented (imp. & p. p.) of Torment
tormenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Torment
Torment (v. t.) To put to extreme pain or anguish; to inflict excruciating misery upon, either of body or mind; to torture.
Torment (v. t.) To pain; to distress; to afflict.
Torment (v. t.) To tease; to vex; to harass; as, to be tormented with importunities, or with petty annoyances.
Torment (v. t.) To put into great agitation.
Tormenter (n.) One who, or that which, torments; a tormentor.
Tormenter (n.) An executioner.
Tormentful (a.) Full of torment; causing, or accompainied by, torment; excruciating.
Tormentil (n.) A rosaceous herb (Potentilla Tormentilla), the root of which is used as a powerful astringent, and for alleviating gripes, or tormina, in diarrhea.
Tormenting (a.) Causing torment; as, a tormenting dream.
Tormentise (n.) Torture; torment.
Tormentor (n.) One who, or that which, torments; one who inflicts penal anguish or tortures.
Tormentor (n.) An implement for reducing a stiff soil, resembling a harrow, but running upon wheels.
Tormentress (n.) A woman who torments.
Tormentry (n.) Anything producing torment, annoyance, or pain.
Tormina (n. pl.) acute, colicky pains; gripes.
Torminous (a.) Affected with tormina; griping.
Torn () p. p. of Tear.
Tornadoes (pl. ) of Tornado
Tornado (n.) A violent whirling wind; specifically (Meteorol.), a tempest distinguished by a rapid whirling and slow progressive motion, usually accompaned with severe thunder, lightning, and torrents of rain, and commonly of short duration and small breadth; a small cyclone.
Tornariae (pl. ) of Tornaria
Tornaria (n.) The peculiar free swimming larva of Balanoglossus. See Illust. in Append.
Torose (a.) Cylindrical with alternate swellings and contractions; having the surface covered with rounded prominences.
Torosity (n.) The quality or state of being torose.
Torous (a.) Torose.
Torpedinous (a.) Of or pertaining to a torpedo; resembling a torpedo; exerting a benumbing influence; stupefying; dull; torpid.
Torpedoes (pl. ) of Torpedo
Torpedo (n.) Any one of numerous species of elasmobranch fishes belonging to Torpedo and allied genera. They are related to the rays, but have the power of giving electrical shocks. Called also crampfish, and numbfish. See Electrical fish, under Electrical.
Torpedo (n.) An engine or machine for destroying ships by blowing them up.
Torpedo (n.) A quantity of explosives anchored in a channel, beneath the water, or set adrift in a current, and so arranged that they will be exploded when touched by a vessel, or when an electric circuit is closed by an operator on shore.
Torpedo (n.) A kind of small submarine boat carrying an explosive charge, and projected from a ship against another ship at a distance, or made self-propelling, and otherwise automatic in its action against a distant ship.
Torpedo (n.) A kind of shell or cartridge buried in earth, to be exploded by electricity or by stepping on it.
Torpedo (n.) A kind of detonating cartridge or shell placed on a rail, and exploded when crushed under the locomotive wheels, -- used as an alarm signal.
Torpedo (n.) An explosive cartridge or shell lowered or dropped into a bored oil well, and there exploded, to clear the well of obstructions or to open communication with a source of supply of oil.
Torpedo (n.) A kind of firework in the form of a small ball, or pellet, which explodes when thrown upon a hard object.
Torpedo (v. t.) to destroy by, or subject to the action of, a torpedo.
Torpent (a.) Having no motion or activity; incapable of motion; benumbed; torpid.
Torpescence (n.) The quality or state or being torpescent; torpidness; numbness; stupidity.
Toppescent (a.) Becoming torpid or numb.
Torpid (a.) Having lost motion, or the power of exertion and feeling; numb; benumbed; as, a torpid limb.
Torpid (a.) Dull; stupid; sluggish; inactive.
Torpidity (n.) Same as Torpidness.
Torpidly (adv.) In a torpid manner.
Torpidness (n.) The qualityy or state of being torpid.
Torpified (imp. & p. p.) of Torpify
Torpifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Torpify
Torpify (v. t.) To make torpid; to numb, or benumb.
Torpitude (n.) Torpidness.
Torpor (n.) Loss of motion, or of the motion; a state of inactivity with partial or total insensibility; numbness.
Torpor (n.) Dullness; sluggishness; inactivity; as, a torpor of the mental faculties.
Torporific (a.) Tending to produce torpor.
Torquate (a.) Collared; having a torques, or distinct colored ring around the neck.
torquated (a.) Having or wearing a torque, or neck chain.
Torque (n.) A collar or neck chain, usually twisted, especially as worn by ancient barbaric nations, as the Gauls, Germans, and Britons.
Torque (n.) That which tends to produce torsion; a couple of forces.
Torque (n.) A turning or twisting; tendency to turn, or cause to turn, about an axis.
Torqued (a.) Wreathed; twisted.
Torqued (a.) Twisted; bent; -- said of a dolphin haurient, which forms a figure like the letter S.
Torques (n.) A cervical ring of hair or feathers, distinguished by its color or structure; a collar.
Torrefaction (n.) The act or process of torrefying, or the state of being torrefied.
Torrefied (imp. & p. p.) of Torrefy
Torrefying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Torrefy
Torrefy (v. t.) To dry by a fire.
Torrefy (v. t.) To subject to scorching heat, so as to drive off volatile ingredients; to roast, as ores.
Torrefy (v. t.) To dry or parch, as drugs, on a metallic plate till they are friable, or are reduced to the state desired.
Torrent (n.) A violent stream, as of water, lava, or the like; a stream suddenly raised and running rapidly, as down a precipice.
Torrent (n.) Fig.: A violent or rapid flow; a strong current; a flood; as, a torrent of vices; a torrent of eloquence.
Torrent (n.) Rolling or rushing in a rapid stream.
Torrential (a.) Alt. of Torrentine
Torrentine (a.) Of or pertaining to a torrent; having the character of a torrent; caused by a torrent .
Torricellian (a.) Of or pertaining to Torricelli, an Italian philosopher and mathematician, who, in 1643, discovered that the rise of a liquid in a tube, as in the barometer, is due to atmospheric pressure. See Barometer.
Torrid (a.) Parched; dried with heat; as, a torrid plain or desert.
Torrid (a.) Violenty hot; drying or scorching with heat; burning; parching.
Torridity (n.) Torridness.
Torridness (n.) The quality or state of being torrid or parched.
Torril (n.) A worthless woman; also, a worthless horse.
Torrock (n.) A gull.
Torsal (n.) A torsel.
Torse (n.) A wreath.
Torse (n.) A developable surface. See under Developable.
Torsel (n.) A plate of timber for the end of a beam or joist to rest on.
Torsibillty (n.) The tendency, as of a rope, to untwist after being twisted.
Torsion (n.) The act of turning or twisting, or the state of being twisted; the twisting or wrenching of a body by the exertion of a lateral force tending to turn one end or part of it about a longitudinal axis, while the other is held fast or turned in the opposite direction.
Torsion (n.) That force with which a thread, wire, or rod of any material, returns, or tends to return, to a state of rest after it has been twisted; torsibility.
Torsional (a.) Of or pertaining to torsion; resulting from torsion, or the force with which a thread or wire returns to a state of rest after having been twisted round its axis; as, torsional force.
Torsk (n.) The cusk. See Cusk.
Torsk (n.) The codfish. Called also tusk.
Torsos (pl. ) of Torso
Torsi (pl. ) of Torso
Torso (n.) The human body, as distinguished from the head and limbs; in sculpture, the trunk of a statue, mutilated of head and limbs; as, the torso of Hercules.
Tort (n.) Mischief; injury; calamity.
Tort (n.) Any civil wrong or injury; a wrongful act (not involving a breach of contract) for which an action will lie; a form of action, in some parts of the United States, for a wrong or injury.
Tort (a.) Stretched tight; taut.
Torta (n.) a flat heap of moist, crushed silver ore, prepared for the patio process.
Torteaus (pl. ) of Torteau
Torteau (n.) A roundel of a red color.
Torticollis (n.) See Wryneck.
Tortile (a.) Twisted; wreathed; coiled.
Tortility (n.) The quality or state of being tortile, twisted, or wreathed.
Tortilla (n.) An unleavened cake, as of maize flour, baked on a heated iron or stone.
Tortion (n.) Torment; pain.
Tortious (a.) Injurious; wrongful.
Tortious (a.) Imploying tort, or privat injury for which the law gives damages; involing tort.
Tortiously (adv.) In a tortous manner.
Tortive (a.) Twisted; wreathed.
Tortoise (n.) Any one of numerous species of reptiles of the order Testudinata.
Tortoise (n.) Same as Testudo, 2.
Tortoise (n.) having a color like that of a tortoise's shell, black with white and orange spots; -- used mostly to describe cats of that color.
Tortoise (n.) a tortoise-shell cat.
Tortricid (a.) Of or pertaining to Tortix, or the family Tortricidae.
Tortrix (n.) Any one of numerous species of small moths of the family Tortricidae, the larvae of which usually roll up the leaves of plants on which they live; -- also called leaf roller.
Tortrix (n.) A genus of tropical short-tailed snakes, which are not venomous. One species (Tortrix scytalae) is handsomely banded with black, and is sometimes worn alive by the natives of Brazil for a necklace.
Tortulous (a.) Swelled out at intervals like a knotted cord.
Tortuose (a.) Wreathed; twisted; winding.
Tortuoslty (n.) the quality or state of being tortuous.
Tortuous (a.) Bent in different directions; wreathed; twisted; winding; as, a tortuous train; a tortuous train; a tortuous leaf or corolla.
Tortuous (a.) Fig.: Deviating from rectitude; indirect; erroneous; deceitful.
Tortuous (a.) Injurious: tortious.
Tortuous (a.) Oblique; -- applied to the six signs of the zodiac (from Capricorn to Gemini) which ascend most rapidly and obliquely.
Torturable (a.) Capable of being tortured.
Torture (n.) Extreme pain; anguish of body or mind; pang; agony; torment; as, torture of mind.
Torture (n.) Especially, severe pain inflicted judicially, either as punishment for a crime, or for the purpose of extorting a confession from an accused person, as by water or fire, by the boot or thumbkin, or by the rack or wheel.
Torture (n.) The act or process of torturing.
Tortured (imp. & p. p.) of Torture
Torturing. (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Torture
Torture (v. t.) To put to torture; to pain extremely; to harass; to vex.
Torture (v. t.) To punish with torture; to put to the rack; as, to torture an accused person.
Torture (v. t.) To wrest from the proper meaning; to distort.
Torture (v. t.) To keep on the stretch, as a bow.
Torturer (n.) One who tortures; a tormentor.
Torturingly (adv.) So as to torture.
Torturous (a.) Involving, or pertaining to, torture.
Torulae (pl. ) of Torula
Torula (n.) A chain of special bacteria. (b) A genus of budding fungi. Same as Saccharomyces. Also used adjectively.
Torulaform (a.) Having the appearance of a torula; in the form of a little chain; as, a torulaform string of micrococci.
Torulose (a.) Same as Torose.
Torulous (a.) Same as Torose.
Tori (pl. ) of Torus
Torus (n.) A lage molding used in the bases of columns. Its profile is semicircular. See Illust. of Molding.
Torus (n.) One of the ventral parapodia of tubicolous annelids. It usually has the form of an oblong thickening or elevation of the integument with rows of uncini or hooks along the center. See Illust. under Tubicolae.
Torus (n.) The receptacle, or part of the flower on which the carpels stand.
Torus (n.) See 3d Tore, 2.
Torved (a.) Stern; grim. See Torvous.
Torvity (a.) Sourness or severity of countenance; sterness.
Torvous (a.) Sour of aspect; of a severe countenance; stern; grim.
Tories (pl. ) of Tory
Tory (n.) A member of the conservative party, as opposed to the progressive party which was formerly called the Whig, and is now called the Liberal, party; an earnest supporter of exsisting royal and ecclesiastical authority.
Tory (n.) One who, in the time of the Revolution, favored submitting tothe claims of Great Britain against the colonies; an adherent tothe crown.
Tory (a.) Of ro pertaining to the Tories.
Toryism (n.) The principles of the Tories.
Toscatter (v. t.) To scatter in pieces; to divide.
Tose (v. t.) To tease, or comb, as wool.
Tosh (a.) Neat; trim.
Toshred (v. t.) To cut into shreads or pieces.
Tossed (imp. & p. p.) of Toss
Tost () of Toss
Tossing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toss
Toss (v. t.) To throw with the hand; especially, to throw with the palm of the hand upward, or to throw upward; as, to toss a ball.
Toss (v. t.) To lift or throw up with a sudden or violent motion; as, to toss the head.
Toss (v. t.) To cause to rise and fall; as, a ship tossed on the waves in a storm.
Toss (v. t.) To agitate; to make restless.
Toss (v. t.) Hence, to try; to harass.
Toss (v. t.) To keep in play; to tumble over; as, to spend four years in tossing the rules of grammar.
Toss (v. i.) To roll and tumble; to be in violent commotion; to write; to fling.
Toss (v. i.) To be tossed, as a fleet on the ocean.
Toss (n.) A throwing upward, or with a jerk; the act of tossing; as, the toss of a ball.
Toss (n.) A throwing up of the head; a particular manner of raising the head with a jerk.
Tossel (n.) See Tassel.
Tosser (n.) Ohe who tosser.
Tossily (adv.) In a tossy manner.
Tossing (n.) The act of throwing upward; a rising and falling suddenly; a rolling and tumbling.
Tossing (n.) A process which consists in washing ores by violent agitation in water, in order to separate the lighter or earhy particles; -- called also tozing, and treloobing, in Cornwall.
Tossing (n.) A process for refining tin by dropping it through the air while melted.
Tosspot (n.) A toper; one habitually given to strong drink; a drunkard.
Tossy (a.) Tossing the head, as in scorn or pride; hence, proud; contemptuous; scornful; affectedly indifferent; as, a tossy commonplace.
Tost () imp. & p. p. of Toss.
Tosto (a.) Quick; rapid.
Toswink (v. i.) To labor excessively.
Tot (n.) Anything small; -- frequently applied as a term of endearment to a little child.
Tot (n.) A drinking cup of small size, holding about half a pint.
Tot (n.) A foolish fellow.
Tota (n.) The grivet.
Total (a.) Whole; not divided; entire; full; complete; absolute; as, a total departure from the evidence; a total loss.
Total (n.) The whole; the whole sum or amount; as, these sums added make the grand total of five millions.
Totality (n.) The quality or state of being total; as, the totality of an eclipse.
Totality (n.) The whole sum; the whole quantity or amount; the entirety; as, the totalityof human knowledge.
Totalize (v. t.) To make total, or complete;to reduce to completeness.
Totally (adv.) In a total manner; wholly; entirely.
Totalness (n.) The quality or state of being total; entireness; totality.
Toted (imp. & p. p.) of Tote
Toting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tote
Tote (v. t.) To carry or bear; as, to tote a child over a stream; -- a colloquial word of the Southern States, and used esp. by negroes.
Tote (n.) The entire body, or all; as, the whole tote.
Totear (v. t.) To tear or rend in pieces.
Totem (n.) A rude picture, as of a bird, beast, or the like, used by the North American Indians as a symbolic designation, as of a family or a clan.
Totemic (a.) Of or pertaining to a totem, or totemism.
Totemism (n.) The system of distinguishing families, clans, etc., in a tribe by the totem.
Totemism (n.) Superstitious regard for a totem; the worship of any real or imaginary object; nature worship.
Totemist (n.) One belonging to a clan or tribe having a totem.
Toter (n.) The stone roller. See Stone roller (a), under Stone.
T'other () A colloquial contraction of the other, and formerly a contraction for that other. See the Note under That, 2.
Totipalmate (a.) Having all four toes united by a web; -- said of certain sea birds, as the pelican and the gannet. See Illust. under Aves.
Totipalmi (n.pl.) A division of swimming birds including those that have totipalmate feet.
Totipresence (n.) Omnipresence.
Totipresent (a.) Omnipresence.
Tottered (imp. & p. p.) of Totter
Tottering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Totter
Totter (v. i.) To shake so as to threaten a fall; to vacillate; to be unsteady; to stagger; as,an old man totters with age.
Totter (v. i.) To shake; to reel; to lean; to waver.
Totterer (n.) One who totters.
Totteringly (adv.) In a tottering manner.
Tottery (a.) Trembling or vaccilating, as if about to fall; unsteady; shaking.
Tottled (imp. & p. p.) of Totly
Tottling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Totly
Totly (v. i.) To walk in a wavering, unsteady manner; to toddle; to topple.
Tottlish (a.) Trembling or tottering, as if about to fall; un steady.
Totty (a.) Unsteady; dizzy; tottery.
Toty (a.) Totty.
Toty (n.) A sailor or fisherman; -- so called in some parts of the Pacific.
Toucan (n.) Any one of numerous species of fruit-eating birds of tropical America belonging to Ramphastos, Pteroglossus, and allied genera of the family Ramphastidae. They have a very large, but light and thin, beak, often nearly as long as the body itself. Most of the species are brilliantly colored with red, yellow, white, and black in striking contrast.
Toucan (n.) A modern constellation of the southern hemisphere.
Toncanet (n.) A small toucan.
Touched (imp. & p. p.) of Touch
Touching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Touch
Touch (v. t.) To come in contact with; to hit or strike lightly against; to extend the hand, foot, or the like, so as to reach or rest on.
Touch (v. t.) To perceive by the sense of feeling.
Touch (v. t.) To come to; to reach; to attain to.
Touch (v. t.) To try; to prove, as with a touchstone.
Touch (v. t.) To relate to; to concern; to affect.
Touch (v. t.) To handle, speak of, or deal with; to treat of.
Touch (v. t.) To meddle or interfere with; as, I have not touched the books.
Touch (v. t.) To affect the senses or the sensibility of; to move; to melt; to soften.
Touch (v. t.) To mark or delineate with touches; to add a slight stroke to with the pencil or brush.
Touch (v. t.) To infect; to affect slightly.
Touch (v. t.) To make an impression on; to have effect upon.
Touch (v. t.) To strike; to manipulate; to play on; as, to touch an instrument of music.
Touch (v. t.) To perform, as a tune; to play.
Touch (v. t.) To influence by impulse; to impel forcibly.
Touch (v. t.) To harm, afflict, or distress.
Touch (v. t.) To affect with insanity, especially in a slight degree; to make partially insane; -- rarely used except in the past participle.
Touch (v. t.) To be tangent to. See Tangent, a.
Touch (a.) To lay a hand upon for curing disease.
Touch (v. i.) To be in contact; to be in a state of junction, so that no space is between; as, two spheres touch only at points.
Touch (v. i.) To fasten; to take effect; to make impression.
Touch (v. i.) To treat anything in discourse, especially in a slight or casual manner; -- often with on or upon.
Touch (v. i.) To be brought, as a sail, so close to the wind that its weather leech shakes.
Touch (v.) The act of touching, or the state of being touched; contact.
Touch (v.) The sense by which pressure or traction exerted on the skin is recognized; the sense by which the properties of bodies are determined by contact; the tactile sense. See Tactile sense, under Tactile.
Touch (v.) Act or power of exciting emotion.
Touch (v.) An emotion or affection.
Touch (v.) Personal reference or application.
Touch (v.) A stroke; as, a touch of raillery; a satiric touch; hence, animadversion; censure; reproof.
Touch (v.) A single stroke on a drawing or a picture.
Touch (v.) Feature; lineament; trait.
Touch (v.) The act of the hand on a musical instrument; bence, in the plural, musical notes.
Touch (v.) A small quantity intermixed; a little; a dash.
Touch (v.) A hint; a suggestion; slight notice.
Touch (v.) A slight and brief essay.
Touch (v.) A touchstone; hence, stone of the sort used for touchstone.
Touch (v.) Hence, examination or trial by some decisive standard; test; proof; tried quality.
Touch (v.) The particular or characteristic mode of action, or the resistance of the keys of an instrument to the fingers; as, a heavy touch, or a light touch; also, the manner of touching, striking, or pressing the keys of a piano; as, a legato touch; a staccato touch.
Touch (v.) The broadest part of a plank worked top and but (see Top and but, under Top, n.), or of one worked anchor-stock fashion (that is, tapered from the middle to both ends); also, the angles of the stern timbers at the counters.
Touch (n.) That part of the field which is beyond the line of flags on either side.
Touch (n.) A boys' game; tag.
Touchable (a.) Capable of being touched; tangible.
Touchback (n.) The act of touching the football down by a player behind his own goal line when it received its last impulse from an opponent; -- distinguished from safety touchdown.
Touch-box (n.) A box containing lighted tinder, formerly carried by soldiers who used matchlocks, to kindle the match.
Touchdown (n.) The act of touching the football down behind the opponents' goal .
Touchhole (n.) The vent of a cannot or other firearm, by which fire is communicateed to the powder of the charge.
Touchily (adv.) In a touchy manner.
Touchiness (n.) The quality or state of being touchy peevishness; irritability; irascibility.
Touching (a.) Affecting; moving; pathetic; as, a touching tale.
Touching (prep.) Concerning; with respect to.
Touching (n.) The sense or act of feeling; touch.
Touch-me-not (n.) See Impatiens.
Touch-me-not (n.) Squirting cucumber. See under Cucumber.
Touch-needle (n.) A small bar of gold and silver, either pure, or alloyed in some known proportion with copper, for trying the purity of articles of gold or silver by comparison of the streaks made by the article and the bar on a touchstone.
Touch-paper (n.) Paper steeped in saltpeter, which burns slowly, and is used as a match for firing gunpowder, and the like.
Touchstone (n.) Lydian stone; basanite; -- so called because used to test the purity of gold and silver by the streak which is left upon the stone when it is rubbed by the metal. See Basanite.
Touchstone (n.) Any test or criterion by which the qualities of a thing are tried.
Touchwood (n.) Wood so decayed as to serve for tinder; spunk, or punk.
Touchwood (n.) Dried fungi used as tinder; especially, the Polyporus igniarius.
Touchy (a.) Peevish; irritable; irascible; techy; apt to take fire.
Tough (superl.) Having the quality of flexibility without brittleness; yielding to force without breaking; capable of resisting great strain; as, the ligaments of animals are remarkably tough.
Tough (superl.) Not easily broken; able to endure hardship; firm; strong; as, tough sinews.
Tough (superl.) Not easily separated; viscous; clammy; tenacious; as, tough phlegm.
Tough (superl.) Stiff; rigid; not flexible; stubborn; as, a tough bow.
Tough (superl.) Severe; violent; as, a tough storm.
Tough-cake (n.) See Tough-pitch (b).
Toughened (imp. & p. p.) of Toughen
Toughening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toughen
Toughen (v. i. & t.) To grow or make tough, or tougher.
Tough-head (n.) The ruddy duck.
Toughish (a.) Tough in a slight degree.
Toughly (adv.) In a tough manner.
Toughness (n.) The quality or state of being tough.
Tough-pitch (n.) The exact state or quality of texture and consistency of well reduced and refined copper.
Tough-pitch (n.) Copper so reduced; -- called also tough-cake.
Touite (n.) The wood warbler.
Toupee (n.) Alt. of Toupet
Toupet (n.) A little tuft; a curl or artificial lock of hair.
Toupet (n.) A small wig, or a toppiece of a wig.
Toupettit (n.) The crested titmouse.
Tour (n.) A tower.
Tour (v. t.) A going round; a circuit; hence, a journey in a circuit; a prolonged circuitous journey; a comprehensive excursion; as, the tour of Europe; the tour of France or England.
Tour (v. t.) A turn; a revolution; as, the tours of the heavenly bodies.
Tour (v. t.) anything done successively, or by regular order; a turn; as, a tour of duty.
Toured (imp. & p. p.) of Tour
Touring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tour
Tour (v. i.) To make a tourm; as, to tour throught a country.
Touraco (n.) Same as Turacou.
Tourbillion (n.) An ornamental firework which turns round, when in the air, so as to form a scroll of fire.
Tourist (n.) One who makes a tour, or performs a journey in a circuit.
Tourmaline (n.) A mineral occurring usually in three-sided or six-sided prisms terminated by rhombohedral or scalenohedral planes. Black tourmaline (schorl) is the most common variety, but there are also other varieties, as the blue (indicolite), red (rubellite), also green, brown, and white. The red and green varieties when transparent are valued as jewels.
Tourn (n.) A spinning wheel.
Tourn (n.) The sheriff's turn, or court.
Tournament (n.) A mock fight, or warlike game, formerly in great favor, in which a number of combatants were engaged, as an exhibition of their address and bravery; hence, figuratively, a real battle.
Tournament (n.) Any contest of skill in which there are many contestents for championship; as, a chess tournament.
Tournery (n.) Work turned on a lathe; turnery.
Tourney (v. t.) A tournament.
Tourney (n.) To perform in tournaments; to tilt.
Tourniquet (n.) An instrument for arresting hemorrhage. It consists essentially of a pad or compress upon which pressure is made by a band which is tightened by a screw or other means.
Tournois (n.) A former French money of account worth 20 sous, or a franc. It was thus called in distinction from the Paris livre, which contained 25 sous.
Tournure (n.) Turn; contour; figure.
Tournure (n.) Any device used by women to expand the skirt of a dress below the waist; a bustle.
Toused (imp. & p. p.) of Touze
Tousing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Touze
Touse (v. t. & i.) Alt. of Touze
Touze (v. t. & i.) To pull; to haul; to tear; to worry.
Touse (n.) A pulling; a disturbance.
Tousel (v. t.) Same as Tousle.
Touser (n.) One who touses.
Tousle (v. t.) To put into disorder; to tumble; to touse.
Tous-les-mois (n.) A kind of starch with very large, oval, flattened grains, often sold as arrowroot, and extensively used for adulterating cocoa. It is made from the rootstocks of a species of Canna, probably C. edulis, the tubers of which are edible every month in the year.
Tout (v. i.) To act as a tout. See 2d Tout.
Tout (v. i.) To ply or seek for customers.
Tout (n.) One who secretly watches race horses which are in course of training, to get information about their capabilities, for use in betting.
Tout (v. i.) To toot a horn.
Tout (n.) The anus.
Tout-ensemble (n.) All together; hence, in costume, the fine arts, etc., the general effect of a work as a whole, without regard to the execution of the separate perts.
Touter (n.) One who seeks customers, as for an inn, a public conveyance, shops, and the like: hence, an obtrusive candidate for office.
Touze (v.t & i.) See Touse.
Tow (n.) The coarse and broken part of flax or hemp, separated from the finer part by the hatchel or swingle.
Towed (imp. & p. p.) of Tow
Towing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tow
Tow (v. t.) To draw or pull through the water, as a vessel of any kind, by means of a rope.
Tow (v. t.) A rope by which anything is towed; a towline, or towrope.
Tow (v. t.) The act of towing, or the state of being towed; --chiefly used in the phrase, to take in tow, that is to tow.
Tow (v. t.) That which is towed, or drawn by a towline, as a barge, raft, collection of boats, ect.
Towage (v.) The act of towing.
Towage (v.) The price paid for towing.
Towall (n.) A towel.
Toward (prep.) Alt. of Towards
Towards (prep.) In the direction of; to.
Towards (prep.) With direction to, in a moral sense; with respect or reference to; regarding; concerning.
Towards (prep.) Tending to; in the direction of; in behalf of.
Towards (prep.) Near; about; approaching to.
Toward (adv.) Alt. of Towards
Towards (adv.) Near; at hand; in state of preparation.
Toward (prep.) Approaching; coming near.
Toward (prep.) Readly to do or learn; compliant with duty; not froward; apt; docile; tractable; as, a toward youth.
Toward (prep.) Ready to act; forward; bold; valiant.
Towardliness (n.) The quality or state of being towardly; docility; tractableness.
Towardly (a.) Same as Toward, a., 2.
Towardness (n.) Quality or state of being toward.
Towards (prep. & adv.) See Toward.
Towboat (n.) A vessel constructed for being towed, as a canal boat.
Towboat (n.) A steamer used for towing other vessels; a tug.
Towel (n.) A cloth used for wiping, especially one used for drying anything wet, as the person after a bath.
Towel (v. t.) To beat with a stick.
Toweling (n.) Cloth for towels, especially such as is woven in long pieces to be cut at will, as distinguished from that woven in towel lengths with borders, etc.
Tower (n.) A mass of building standing alone and insulated, usually higher than its diameter, but when of great size not always of that proportion.
Tower (n.) A projection from a line of wall, as a fortification, for purposes of defense, as a flanker, either or the same height as the curtain wall or higher.
Tower (n.) A structure appended to a larger edifice for a special purpose, as for a belfry, and then usually high in proportion to its width and to the height of the rest of the edifice; as, a church tower.
Tower (n.) A citadel; a fortress; hence, a defense.
Tower (n.) A headdress of a high or towerlike form, fashionable about the end of the seventeenth century and until 1715; also, any high headdress.
Tower (n.) High flight; elevation.
towered (imp. & p. p.) of Tower
towering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tower
Tower (v. i.) To rise and overtop other objects; to be lofty or very high; hence, to soar.
Tower (v. t.) To soar into.
Towered (a.) Adorned or defended by towers.
Towering (a.) Very high; elevated; rising aloft; as, a towering height.
Towering (a.) Hence, extreme; violent; surpassing.
Towery (a.) Having towers; adorned or defended by towers.
Tow-head (n.) An urchin who has soft, whitish hair.
Tow-head (n.) The hooded merganser.
Towhee (n.) The chewink.
Towilly (n.) The sanderling; -- so called from its cry.
Towline (v. t.) A line used to tow vessels; a towrope.
Town (adv. & prep.) Formerly: (a) An inclosure which surrounded the mere homestead or dwelling of the lord of the manor. [Obs.] (b) The whole of the land which constituted the domain. [Obs.] (c) A collection of houses inclosed by fences or walls.
Town (adv. & prep.) Any number or collection of houses to which belongs a regular market, and which is not a city or the see of a bishop.
Town (adv. & prep.) Any collection of houses larger than a village, and not incorporated as a city; also, loosely, any large, closely populated place, whether incorporated or not, in distinction from the country, or from rural communities.
Town (adv. & prep.) The body of inhabitants resident in a town; as, the town voted to send two representatives to the legislature; the town voted to lay a tax for repairing the highways.
Town (adv. & prep.) A township; the whole territory within certain limits, less than those of a country.
Town (adv. & prep.) The court end of London;-- commonly with the.
Town (adv. & prep.) The metropolis or its inhabitants; as, in winter the gentleman lives in town; in summer, in the country.
Town (adv. & prep.) A farm or farmstead; also, a court or farmyard.
Town-crier (n.) A town officer who makes proclamations to the people; the public crier of a town.
Towned (a.) Having towns; containing many towns.
Townhall (n.) A public hall or building, belonging to a town, where the public offices are established, the town council meets, the people assemble in town meeting, etc.
Townhouse (n.) A building devoted to the public used of a town; a townhall.
Townish (a.) Of or pertaining to the inhabitants of a town; like the town.
Townless (a.) Having no town.
Townlet (n.) A small town.
Townsfolk (n.) The people of a town; especially, the inhabitants of a city, in distinction from country people; townspeople.
Township (n.) The district or territory of a town.
Township (n.) In surveys of the public land of the United States, a division of territory six miles square, containing 36 sections.
Township (n.) In Canada, one of the subdivisions of a county.
Townsmen (pl. ) of Townsman
Townsman (n.) An inhabitant of a town; one of the same town with another.
Townsman (n.) A selectman, in New England. See Selectman.
Townpeople (n.) The inhabitants of a town or city, especially in distinction from country people; townsfolk.
Townward (adv.) Alt. of Townwards
Townwards (adv.) Toward a town.
Towpath (n.) A path traveled by men or animals in towing boats; -- called also towing path.
Towrope (n.) A rope used in towing vessels.
Towser (n.) A familiar name for a dog.
Towy (a.) Composed of, or like, tow.
Tox/mia (a.) Blood poisoning. See under Blood.
Toxic (a.) Alt. of Toxical
Toxical (a.) Of or pertaining to poison; poisonous; as, toxic medicines.
Toxicant (n.) A poisonous agent or drug, as opium; an intoxicant.
Toxicological (a.) Of or pertaining to toxicology.
Toxicologist (n.) One versed in toxicology; the writer of a treatise on poisons.
Toxicology (n.) The science which treats of poisons, their effects, antidotes, and recognition; also, a discourse or treatise on the science.
Toxicomania (n.) Toxiphobia.
Toxicomania (n.) An insane desire for intoxicating or poisonous drugs, as alcohol or opium.
Toxifera (n.pl.) Same as Toxoglossa.
Toxin (n.) Alt. of Toxine
Toxine (n.) A poisonous product formed by pathogenic bacteria, as a toxic proteid or poisonous ptomaine.
Toxiphobia (n.) An insane or greatly exaggerated dread of poisons.
Toxodon (n.) A gigantic extinct herbivorous mammal from South America, having teeth bent like a bow. It is the type of the order Toxodonta.
Toxodonta (n.pl.) An extinct order of Mammalia found in the South American Tertiary formation. The incisor teeth were long and curved and provided with a persistent pulp. They are supposed to be related both to the rodents and ungulates. Called also Toxodontia.
Toxoglossa (n.pl.) A division of marine gastropod mollusks in which the radula are converted into poison fangs. The cone shells (Conus), Pleurotoma, and Terebra, are examples. See Illust. of Cone, n., 4, Pleurotoma, and Terebra.
Toxophilite (n.) A lover of archery; one devoted to archery.
Toxotes (n.) A genus of fishes comprising the archer fishes. See Archer fish.
Toy (v. t.) A plaything for children; a bawble.
Toy (v. t.) A thing for amusement, but of no real value; an article of trade of little value; a trifle.
Toy (v. t.) A wild fancy; an odd conceit; idle sport; folly; trifling opinion.
Toy (v. t.) Amorous dalliance; play; sport; pastime.
Toy (v. t.) An old story; a silly tale.
Toy (v. t.) A headdress of linen or woolen, that hangs down over the shoulders, worn by old women of the lower classes; -- called also toy mutch.
toyed (imp. & p. p.) of Toy
toying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Toy
Toy (v. i.) To dally amorously; to trifle; to play.
Toy (v. t.) To treat foolishly.
Toyear (adv.) This year.
Toyer (n.) One who toys; one who is full of trifling tricks; a trifler.
Toyful (a.) Full of trifling play.
Toyhouse (n.) A house for children to play in or to play with; a playhouse.
Toyingly (adv.) In a toying manner.
Toyish (a.) Sportive; trifling; wanton.
Toyish (a.) Resembling a toy.
Toyman (n.) One who deals in toys.
Toyshop (n.) A shop where toys are sold.
Toysome (a.) Disposed to toy; trifling; wanton.
Toze (v. t.) To pull violently; to touse.
Tozy (a.) Soft, like wool that has been teased.
Trabeae (pl. ) of Trabea
Trabea (n.) A toga of purple, or ornamented with purple horizontal stripes. -- worn by kings, consuls, and augurs.
Trabeated (a.) Furnished with an entablature.
Trabeation (n.) Same as Entablature.
Trabeculae (pl. ) of Trabecula
Trabecula (n.) A small bar, rod, bundle of fibers, or septal membrane, in the framework of an organ part.
Trabecular (a.) Of or pertaining to a trabecula or trabeculae; composed of trabeculae.
Trabeculate (a.) Crossbarred, as the ducts in a banana stem.
Trabu (n.) Same as Trubu.
Trace (n.) One of two straps, chains, or ropes of a harness, extending from the collar or breastplate to a whiffletree attached to a vehicle or thing to be drawn; a tug.
Trace (v. t.) A mark left by anything passing; a track; a path; a course; a footprint; a vestige; as, the trace of a carriage or sled; the trace of a deer; a sinuous trace.
Trace (v. t.) A very small quantity of an element or compound in a given substance, especially when so small that the amount is not quantitatively determined in an analysis; -- hence, in stating an analysis, often contracted to tr.
Trace (v. t.) A mark, impression, or visible appearance of anything left when the thing itself no longer exists; remains; token; vestige.
Trace (v. t.) The intersection of a plane of projection, or an original plane, with a coordinate plane.
Trace (v. t.) The ground plan of a work or works.
traced (imp. & p. p.) of Trace
tracing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trace
Trace (v. t.) To mark out; to draw or delineate with marks; especially, to copy, as a drawing or engraving, by following the lines and marking them on a sheet superimposed, through which they appear; as, to trace a figure or an outline; a traced drawing.
Trace (v. t.) To follow by some mark that has been left by a person or thing which has preceded; to follow by footsteps, tracks, or tokens.
Trace (v. t.) Hence, to follow the trace or track of.
Trace (v. t.) To copy; to imitate.
Trace (v. t.) To walk over; to pass through; to traverse.
Trace (v. i.) To walk; to go; to travel.
Traceable (a.) Capable of being traced.
Tracer (n.) One who, or that which, traces.
Traceries (pl. ) of Tracer/y
Tracer/y (n.) Ornamental work with rambled lines.
Tracer/y (n.) The decorative head of a Gothic window.
Tracer/y (n.) A similar decoration in some styles of vaulting, the ribs of the vault giving off the minor bars of which the tracery is composed.
Tracheae (pl. ) of Trachea
Trachea (n.) The windpipe. See Illust. of Lung.
Trachea (n.) One of the respiratory tubes of insects and arachnids.
Trachea (n.) One of the large cells in woody tissue which have spiral, annular, or other markings, and are connected longitudinally so as to form continuous ducts.
Tracheal (a.) Of or pertaining to the trachea; like a trachea.
Trachearia (n.pl.) A division of Arachnida including those that breathe only by means of tracheae. It includes the mites, ticks, false scorpions, and harvestmen.
Tracheary (a.) Tracheal; breathing by means of tracheae.
Tracheary (n.) One of the Trachearia.
Tracheata (n.pl.) An extensive division of arthropods comprising all those which breathe by tracheae, as distinguished from Crustacea, which breathe by means of branchiae.
Tracheate (a.) Breathing by means of tracheae; of or pertaining to the Tracheata.
Tracheate (n.) Any arthropod having tracheae; one of the Tracheata.
Tracheid (n.) A wood cell with spiral or other markings and closed throughout, as in pine wood.
Tracheitis (n.) Inflammation of the trachea, or windpipe.
Trachelidan (n.) Any one of a tribe of beetles (Trachelides) which have the head supported on a pedicel. The oil beetles and the Cantharides are examples.
Trachelipod (n.) One of the Trachelipoda.
Trachelipoda (n.pl.) An extensive artificial group of gastropods comprising all those which have a spiral shell and the foot attached to the base of the neck.
Trachelipodous (a.) Having the foot united with the neck; of or pertainingto the Trachelipoda.
Trachelobranchiate (a.) Having the gills situated upon the neck; -- said of certain mollusks.
Trachelorrhaphy (n.) The operation of sewing up a laceration of the neck of the uterus.
Trachenchyma (n.) A vegetable tissue consisting of tracheae.
Tracheobranchlae (pl. ) of Tracheobranchia
Tracheobranchia (n.) One of the gill-like breathing organs of certain aquatic insect larvae. They contain tracheal tubes somewhat similar to those of other insects.
Tracheobronchial (a.) Pertaining both to the tracheal and bronchial tubes, or to their junction; -- said of the syrinx of certain birds.
Tracheocele (n.) Goiter.
Tracheocele (n.) A tumor containing air and communicating with the trachea.
Tracheophonae (n. pl.) A group of passerine birds having the syrinx at the lower end of the trachea.
Tracheoscopy (n.) Examination of the interior of the trachea by means of a mirror.
Tracheotomy (n.) The operation of making an opening into the windpipe.
Trachinoid (a.) Of, pertaining to, or like, Trachinus, a genus of fishes which includes the weevers. See Weever.
Trachitis (n.) Tracheitis.
Trachycarpous (a.) Rough-fruited.
Trachymedusae (n. pl.) A division of acalephs in which the development is direct from the eggs, without a hydroid stage. Some of the species are parasitic on other medusae.
Trachyspermous (a.) Rough-seeded.
Trachystomata (n. pl.) An order of tailed aquatic amphibians, including Siren and Pseudobranchus. They have anterior legs only, are eel-like in form, and have no teeth except a small patch on the palate. The external gills are persistent through life.
Trachyte (n.) An igneous rock, usually light gray in color and breaking with a rough surface. It consists chiefly of orthoclase feldspar with sometimes hornblende and mica.
Trachytic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, trachyte.
Trachytoid (a.) Resembling trachyte; -- used to define the structure of certain rocks.
Tracing (n.) The act of one who traces; especially, the act of copying by marking on thin paper, or other transparent substance, the lines of a pattern placed beneath; also, the copy thus producted.
Tracing (n.) A regular path or track; a course.
Track (n.) A mark left by something that has passed along; as, the track, or wake, of a ship; the track of a meteor; the track of a sled or a wheel.
Track (n.) A mark or impression left by the foot, either of man or beast; trace; vestige; footprint.
Track (n.) The entire lower surface of the foot; -- said of birds, etc.
Track (n.) A road; a beaten path.
Track (n.) Course; way; as, the track of a comet.
Track (n.) A path or course laid out for a race, for exercise, etc.
Track (n.) The permanent way; the rails.
Track (n.) A tract or area, as of land.
tracked (imp. & p. p.) of Track
tracking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Track
Track (v. t.) To follow the tracks or traces of; to pursue by following the marks of the feet; to trace; to trail; as, to track a deer in the snow.
Track (v. t.) To draw along continuously, as a vessel, by a line, men or animals on shore being the motive power; to tow.
Trackage (n.) The act of tracking, or towing, as a boat; towage.
Tracker (n.) One who, or that which, tracks or pursues, as a man or dog that follows game.
Tracker (n.) In the organ, a light strip of wood connecting (in path) a key and a pallet, to communicate motion by pulling.
Trackless (a.) Having no track; marked by no footsteps; untrodden; as, a trackless desert.
Trackmaster (n.) One who has charge of the track; -- called also roadmaster.
Track-road (n.) A towing path.
Trackscout (n.) See Trackschuyt.
Tract (n.) A written discourse or dissertation, generally of short extent; a short treatise, especially on practical religion.
Tract (v.) Something drawn out or extended; expanse.
Tract (v.) A region or quantity of land or water, of indefinite extent; an area; as, an unexplored tract of sea.
Tract (v.) Traits; features; lineaments.
Tract (v.) The footprint of a wild beast.
Tract (v.) Track; trace.
Tract (v.) Treatment; exposition.
Tract (v.) Continuity or extension of anything; as, the tract of speech.
Tract (v.) Continued or protracted duration; length; extent.
Tract (v.) Verses of Scripture sung at Mass, instead of the Alleluia, from Septuagesima Sunday till the Saturday befor Easter; -- so called because sung tractim, or without a break, by one voice, instead of by many as in the antiphons.
Tract (v. t.) To trace out; to track; also, to draw out; to protact.
Tractability (n.) The quality or state of being tractable or docile; docility; tractableness.
Tractable (v. t.) Capable of being easily led, taught, or managed; docile; manageable; governable; as, tractable children; a tractable learner.
Tractable (v. t.) Capable of being handled; palpable; practicable; feasible; as, tractable measures.
Tractarian (n.) One of the writers of the Oxford tracts, called "Tracts for the Times," issued during the period 1833-1841, in which series of papers the sacramental system and authority of the Church, and the value of tradition, were brought into prominence. Also, a member of the High Church party, holding generally the principles of the Tractarian writers; a Puseyite.
Tractarian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Tractarians, or their principles.
Tractarianism (n.) The principles of the Tractarians, or of those persons accepting the teachings of the "Tracts for the Times."
Tractate (n.) A treatise; a tract; an essay.
Tractation (n.) Treatment or handling of a subject; discussion.
Tractator (n.) One who writes tracts; specif., a Tractarian.
Tractile (a.) Capable of being drawn out in length; ductile.
Tractility (n.) The quality of being tractile; ductility.
Traction (n.) The act of drawing, or the state of being drawn; as, the traction of a muscle.
Traction (n.) Specifically, the act of drawing a body along a plane by motive power, as the drawing of a carriage by men or horses, the towing of a boat by a tug.
Traction (n.) Attraction; a drawing toward.
Traction (n.) The adhesive friction of a wheel on a rail, a rope on a pulley, or the like.
Tractite (n.) A Tractarian.
Tractitious (a.) Treating of; handling.
Tractive (a.) Serving to draw; pulling; attracting; as, tractive power.
Tractor (n.) That which draws, or is used for drawing.
Tractor (n.) Two small, pointed rods of metal, formerly used in the treatment called Perkinism.
Tractoration (n.) See Perkinism.
Tractory (n.) A tractrix.
Tractrix (n.) A curve such that the part of the tangent between the point of tangency and a given straight line is constant; -- so called because it was conceived as described by the motion of one end of a tangent line as the other end was drawn along the given line.
Trad () imp. of Tread.
Trade (v.) A track; a trail; a way; a path; also, passage; travel; resort.
Trade (v.) Course; custom; practice; occupation; employment.
Trade (v.) Business of any kind; matter of mutual consideration; affair; dealing.
Trade (v.) Specifically: The act or business of exchanging commodities by barter, or by buying and selling for money; commerce; traffic; barter.
Trade (v.) The business which a person has learned, and which he engages in, for procuring subsistence, or for profit; occupation; especially, mechanical employment as distinguished from the liberal arts, the learned professions, and agriculture; as, we speak of the trade of a smith, of a carpenter, or mason, but not now of the trade of a farmer, or a lawyer, or a physician.
Trade (v.) Instruments of any occupation.
Trade (v.) A company of men engaged in the same occupation; thus, booksellers and publishers speak of the customs of the trade, and are collectively designated as the trade.
Trade (v.) The trade winds.
Trade (v.) Refuse or rubbish from a mine.
Traded (imp. & p. p.) of Trade
Trading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trade
Trade (v. i.) To barter, or to buy and sell; to be engaged in the exchange, purchase, or sale of goods, wares, merchandise, or anything else; to traffic; to bargain; to carry on commerce as a business.
Trade (v. i.) To buy and sell or exchange property in a single instance.
Trade (v. i.) To have dealings; to be concerned or associated; -- usually followed by with.
Trade (v. t.) To sell or exchange in commerce; to barter.
Trade () imp. of Tread.
Traded (a.) Professional; practiced.
Tradeful (a.) Full of trade; busy in traffic; commercial.
Tradeless (a.) Having no trade or traffic.
Trade-mark (n.) A peculiar distinguishing mark or device affixed by a manufacturer or a merchant to his goods, the exclusive right of using which is recognized by law.
Trader (n.) One engaged in trade or commerce; one who makes a business of buying and selling or of barter; a merchant; a trafficker; as, a trader to the East Indies; a country trader.
Trader (n.) A vessel engaged in the coasting or foreign trade.
Tradescantia (n.) A genus including spiderwort and Wandering Jew.
Tradesfolk (n.) People employed in trade; tradesmen.
Tradesmen (pl. ) of Tradesman
Tradesman (n.) One who trades; a shopkeeper.
Tradesman (n.) A mechanic or artificer; esp., one whose livelihood depends upon the labor of his hands.
Tradespeople (n.) People engaged in trade; shopkeepers.
trades union () Alt. of Trade union
Trade union () An organized combination among workmen for the purpose of maintaining their rights, privileges, and interests with respect to wages, hours of labor, customs, etc.
Trades-unionist (n.) Alt. of Trade-unionist
Trade-unionist (n.) A member of a trades union, or a supporter of trades unions.
Tradeswomen (pl. ) of Tradeswoman
Tradeswoman (n.) A woman who trades, or is skilled in trade.
Trading (a.) Carrying on trade or commerce; engaged in trade; as, a trading company.
Trading (a.) Frequented by traders.
Trading (a.) Venal; corrupt; jobbing; as, a trading politician.
Tradition (n.) The act of delivering into the hands of another; delivery.
Tradition (n.) The unwritten or oral delivery of information, opinions, doctrines, practices, rites, and customs, from father to son, or from ancestors to posterity; the transmission of any knowledge, opinions, or practice, from forefathers to descendants by oral communication, without written memorials.
Tradition (n.) Hence, that which is transmitted orally from father to son, or from ancestors to posterity; knowledge or belief transmitted without the aid of written memorials; custom or practice long observed.
Tradition (n.) An unwritten code of law represented to have been given by God to Moses on Sinai.
Tradition (n.) That body of doctrine and discipline, or any article thereof, supposed to have been put forth by Christ or his apostles, and not committed to writing.
Tradition (v. t.) To transmit by way of tradition; to hand down.
Traditional (a.) Of or pertaining to tradition; derived from tradition; communicated from ancestors to descendants by word only; transmitted from age to age without writing; as, traditional opinions; traditional customs; traditional expositions of the Scriptures.
Traditional (a.) Observant of tradition; attached to old customs; old-fashioned.
Traditionlism (n.) A system of faith founded on tradition; esp., the doctrine that all religious faith is to be based solely upon what is delivered from competent authority, exclusive of rational processes.
Traditionalist (n.) An advocate of, or believer in, traditionalism; a traditionist.
Traditionally (adv.) In a traditional manner.
Traditionarily (adv.) By tradition.
Traditionary (a.) Traditional.
Traditionaries (pl. ) of Traditionary
Traditionary (n.) One, among the Jews, who acknowledges the authority of traditions, and explains the Scriptures by them.
Traditioner (n.) Alt. of Traditionist
Traditionist (n.) One who adheres to tradition.
Traditive (a.) Transmitted or transmissible from father to son, or from age, by oral communication; traditional.
Traditor (n.) A deliverer; -- a name of infamy given to Christians who delivered the Scriptures, or the goods of the church, to their persecutors to save their lives.
Traduced (imp. & p. p.) of Traduce
Traducing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Traduce
Traduce (v. t.) To transfer; to transmit; to hand down; as, to traduce mental qualities to one's descendants.
Traduce (v. t.) To translate from one language to another; as, to traduce and compose works.
Traduce (v. t.) To increase or distribute by propagation.
Traduce (v. t.) To draw away; to seduce.
Traduce (v. t.) To represent; to exhibit; to display; to expose; to make an example of.
Traduce (v. t.) To expose to contempt or shame; to represent as blamable; to calumniate; to vilify; to defame.
Traducement (n.) The act of traducing; misrepresentation; ill-founded censure; defamation; calumny.
Traducent (a.) Slanderous.
Traducer (n.) One who traduces; a slanderer; a calumniator.
Traducer (n.) One who derives or deduces.
Traducian (n.) A believer in traducianism.
Traducianism (n.) The doctrine that human souls are produced by the act of generation; -- opposed to creationism, and infusionism.
Traducible (a.) Capable of being derived or propagated.
Traducible (a.) Capable of being traduced or calumniated.
Traducingly (adv.) In a traducing manner; by traduction; slanderously.
Traduct (v. t.) To derive or deduce; also, to transmit; to transfer.
Traduct (n.) That which is traducted; that which is transferred; a translation.
Traduction (n.) Transmission from one to another.
Traduction (n.) Translation from one language to another.
Traduction (n.) Derivation by descent; propagation.
Traduction (n.) The act of transferring; conveyance; transportation.
Traduction (n.) Transition.
Traduction (n.) A process of reasoning in which each conclusion applies to just such an object as each of the premises applies to.
Traductive (a.) Capable of being deduced; derivable.
Trafficked (imp. & p. p.) of Traffic
Trafficking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Traffic
Traffic (v. i.) To pass goods and commodities from one person to another for an equivalent in goods or money; to buy or sell goods; to barter; to trade.
Traffic (v. i.) To trade meanly or mercenarily; to bargain.
Traffic (v. t.) To exchange in traffic; to effect by a bargain or for a consideration.
Traffic (v.) Commerce, either by barter or by buying and selling; interchange of goods and commodities; trade.
Traffic (v.) Commodities of the market.
Traffic (v.) The business done upon a railway, steamboat line, etc., with reference to the number of passengers or the amount of freight carried.
Trafficable (a.) Capable of being disposed of in traffic; marketable.
Trafficker (n.) One who traffics, or carries on commerce; a trader; a merchant.
Trafficless (a.) Destitute of traffic, or trade.
Tragacanth (n.) A kind of gum procured from a spiny leguminous shrub (Astragalus gummifer) of Western Asia, and other species of Astragalus. It comes in hard whitish or yellowish flakes or filaments, and is nearly insoluble in water, but slowly swells into a mucilaginous mass, which is used as a substitute for gum arabic in medicine and the arts. Called also gum tragacanth.
Tragedian (n.) A writer of tragedy.
Tragedian (n.) An actor or player in tragedy.
Tragedienne (n.) A woman who plays in tragedy.
Tragedious (a.) Like tragedy; tragical.
Tragedies (pl. ) of Tragedy
Tragedy (n.) A dramatic poem, composed in elevated style, representing a signal action performed by some person or persons, and having a fatal issue; that species of drama which represents the sad or terrible phases of character and life.
Tragedy (n.) A fatal and mournful event; any event in which human lives are lost by human violence, more especially by unauthorized violence.
Tragic (a.) Alt. of Tragical
Tragical (a.) Of or pertaining to tragedy; of the nature or character of tragedy; as, a tragic poem; a tragic play or representation.
Tragical (a.) Fatal to life; mournful; terrible; calamitous; as, the tragic scenes of the French revolution.
Tragical (a.) Mournful; expressive of tragedy, the loss of life, or of sorrow.
Tragic (n.) A writer of tragedy.
Tragic (n.) A tragedy; a tragic drama.
Tragi-comedy (n.) A kind of drama representing some action in which serious and comic scenes are blended; a composition partaking of the nature both of tragedy and comedy.
Tragi-comic (a.) Alt. of Tragi-comical
Tragi-comical (a.) Of or pertaining to tragi-comedy; partaking of grave and comic scenes.
Tragi-comi-pastoral (a.) Partaking of the nature of, or combining, tragedy, comedy, and pastoral poetry.
Tragopan (n.) Any one of several species of Asiatic pheasants of the genus Ceriornis. They are brilliantly colored with a variety of tints, the back and breast are usually covered with white or buff ocelli, and the head is ornamented with two bright-colored, fleshy wattles. The crimson tragopan, or horned pheasant (C. satyra), of India is one of the best-known species.
Tragus (n.) The prominence in front of the external opening of the ear. See Illust. under Ear.
T rail () See under T.
Trailed (imp. & p. p.) of Trail
Trailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trail
Trail (v. t.) To hunt by the track; to track.
Trail (v. t.) To draw or drag, as along the ground.
Trail (v. t.) To carry, as a firearm, with the breech near the ground and the upper part inclined forward, the piece being held by the right hand near the middle.
Trail (v. t.) To tread down, as grass, by walking through it; to lay flat.
Trail (v. t.) To take advantage of the ignorance of; to impose upon.
Trail (v. i.) To be drawn out in length; to follow after.
Trail (v. i.) To grow to great length, especially when slender and creeping upon the ground, as a plant; to run or climb.
Trail (n.) A track left by man or beast; a track followed by the hunter; a scent on the ground by the animal pursued; as, a deer trail.
Trail (n.) A footpath or road track through a wilderness or wild region; as, an Indian trail over the plains.
Trail (n.) Anything drawn out to a length; as, the trail of a meteor; a trail of smoke.
Trail (n.) Anything drawn behind in long undulations; a train.
Trail (n.) Anything drawn along, as a vehicle.
Trail (n.) A frame for trailing plants; a trellis.
Trail (n.) The entrails of a fowl, especially of game, as the woodcock, and the like; -- applied also, sometimes, to the entrails of sheep.
Trail (n.) That part of the stock of a gun carriage which rests on the ground when the piece is unlimbered. See Illust. of Gun carriage, under Gun.
Trail (n.) The act of taking advantage of the ignorance of a person; an imposition.
Trailer (n.) One who, or that which, trails.
Trailer (n.) A part of an object which extends some distance beyond the main body of the object; as, the trailer of a plant.
Trailing () a. & vb. n. from Trail.
Trained (imp. & p. p.) of Train
Training (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Train
Train (v. t.) To draw along; to trail; to drag.
Train (v. t.) To draw by persuasion, artifice, or the like; to attract by stratagem; to entice; to allure.
Train (v. t.) To teach and form by practice; to educate; to exercise; to discipline; as, to train the militia to the manual exercise; to train soldiers to the use of arms.
Train (v. t.) To break, tame, and accustom to draw, as oxen.
Train (v. t.) To lead or direct, and form to a wall or espalier; to form to a proper shape, by bending, lopping, or pruning; as, to train young trees.
Train (v. t.) To trace, as a lode or any mineral appearance, to its head.
Train (v. i.) To be drilled in military exercises; to do duty in a military company.
Train (v. i.) To prepare by exercise, diet, instruction, etc., for any physical contest; as, to train for a boat race.
Train (v.) That which draws along; especially, persuasion, artifice, or enticement; allurement.
Train (v.) Hence, something tied to a lure to entice a hawk; also, a trap for an animal; a snare.
Train (v.) That which is drawn along in the rear of, or after, something; that which is in the hinder part or rear.
Train (v.) That part of a gown which trails behind the wearer.
Train (v.) The after part of a gun carriage; the trail.
Train (v.) The tail of a bird.
Train (v.) A number of followers; a body of attendants; a retinue; a suite.
Train (v.) A consecution or succession of connected things; a series.
Train (v.) Regular method; process; course; order; as, things now in a train for settlement.
Train (v.) The number of beats of a watch in any certain time.
Train (v.) A line of gunpowder laid to lead fire to a charge, mine, or the like.
Train (v.) A connected line of cars or carriages on a railroad.
Train (v.) A heavy, long sleigh used in Canada for the transportation of merchandise, wood, and the like.
Train (v.) A roll train; as, a 12-inch train.
Trainable (a.) Capable of being trained or educated; as, boys trainable to virtue.
Trainbands (pl. ) of Trainband
Trainband (n.) A band or company of an organized military force instituted by James I. and dissolved by Charles II.; -- afterwards applied to the London militia.
Trainbearer (n.) One who holds up a train, as of a robe.
Trainel (n.) A dragnet.
Trainer (n.) One who trains; an instructor; especially, one who trains or prepares men, horses, etc., for exercises requiring physical agility and strength.
Trainer (n.) A militiaman when called out for exercise or discipline.
Training (n.) The act of one who trains; the act or process of exercising, disciplining, etc.; education.
Train oil () Oil procured from the blubber or fat of whales, by boiling.
Trainy (a.) Belonging to train oil.
Traipse (v. i.) To walk or run about in a slatternly, careless, or thoughtless manner.
Trais (n. pl.) Alt. of Trays
Trays (n. pl.) Traces.
Trait (v.) A stroke; a touch.
Trait (v.) A distinguishing or marked feature; a peculiarity; as, a trait of character.
Traiteur (n.) The keeper of an eating house, or restaurant; a restaurateur.
Traitor (n.) One who violates his allegiance and betrays his country; one guilty of treason; one who, in breach of trust, delivers his country to an enemy, or yields up any fort or place intrusted to his defense, or surrenders an army or body of troops to the enemy, unless when vanquished; also, one who takes arms and levies war against his country; or one who aids an enemy in conquering his country. See Treason.
Traitor (n.) Hence, one who betrays any confidence or trust; a betrayer.
Traitor (a.) Traitorous.
Traitor (v. t.) To act the traitor toward; to betray; to deceive.
Traitoress (n.) A traitress.
Traitorly (a.) Like a traitor; treacherous; traitorous.
Traitorous (a.) Guilty of treason; treacherous; perfidious; faithless; as, a traitorous officer or subject.
Traitorous (a.) Consisting in treason; partaking of treason; implying breach of allegiance; as, a traitorous scheme.
Traitory (n.) Treachery.
Traitress (n.) A woman who betrays her country or any trust; a traitoress.
Trajected (imp. & p. p.) of Traject
Trajecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Traject
Traject (v. t.) To throw or cast through, over, or across; as, to traject the sun's light through three or more cross prisms.
Traject (v. t.) A place for passing across; a passage; a ferry.
Traject (v. t.) The act of trajecting; trajection.
Traject (v. t.) A trajectory.
Trajection (n.) The act of trajecting; a throwing or casting through or across; also, emission.
Trajection (n.) Transposition.
Trajectories (pl. ) of Trajectory
Trajectory (n.) The curve which a body describes in space, as a planet or comet in its orbit, or stone thrown upward obliquely in the air.
Trajet (n.) Alt. of Trajetry
Trajetour (n.) Alt. of Trajetry
Trajetry (n.) See Treget, Tregetour, and Tregetry.
Tralation (n.) The use of a word in a figurative or extended sense; ametaphor; a trope.
Tralatition (n.) A change, as in the use of words; a metaphor.
Tralatitious (a.) Passed along; handed down; transmitted.
Tralatitious (a.) Metaphorical; figurative; not literal.
Tralatitiously (adv.) In a tralatitious manner; metephorically.
Tralineate (v. i.) To deviate; to stray; to wander.
Tralucency (n.) Translucency; as, the tralucency of a gem.
Tralucent (a.) Translucent.
Tram (n.) A four-wheeled truck running on rails, and used in a mine, as for carrying coal or ore.
Tram (n.) The shaft of a cart.
Tram (n.) One of the rails of a tramway.
Tram (n.) A car on a horse railroad.
Tram (n.) A silk thread formed of two or more threads twisted together, used especially for the weft, or cross threads, of the best quality of velvets and silk goods.
Tramble (v. t.) To wash, as tin ore, with a shovel in a frame fitted for the purpose.
Trammel (n.) A kind of net for catching birds, fishes, or other prey.
Trammel (n.) A net for confining a woman's hair.
Trammel (n.) A kind of shackle used for regulating the motions of a horse and making him amble.
Trammel (n.) Fig.: Whatever impedes activity, progress, or freedom, as a net or shackle.
Trammel (n.) An iron hook of various forms and sizes, used for handing kettles and other vessels over the fire.
Trammel (n.) An instrument for drawing ellipses, one part of which consists of a cross with two grooves at right angles to each other, the other being a beam carrying two pins (which slide in those grooves), and also the describing pencil.
Trammel (n.) A beam compass. See under Beam.
Trammeled (imp. & p. p.) of Trammel
Trammelled () of Trammel
Trammeling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trammel
Trammelling () of Trammel
Trammel (v. t.) To entangle, as in a net; to catch.
Trammel (v. t.) To confine; to hamper; to shackle.
Trammeled (a.) Having blazes, or white marks, on the fore and hind foot of one side, as if marked by trammels; -- said of a horse.
Trammeler (n.) One who uses a trammel net.
Trammeler (n.) One who, or that which, trammels or restrains.
Tramming (n.) The act or process of forming trams. See 2d Tram.
Tramontane (a.) Lying or being beyond the mountains; coming from the other side of the mountains; hence, foreign; barbarous.
Tramontane (n.) One living beyond the mountains; hence, a foreigner; a stranger.
Tramped (imp. & p. p.) of Tramp
Tramping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tramp
Tramp (v. i.) To tread upon forcibly and repeatedly; to trample.
Tramp (v. i.) To travel or wander through; as, to tramp the country.
Tramp (v. i.) To cleanse, as clothes, by treading upon them in water.
Tramp (v. i.) To travel; to wander; to stroll.
Tramp (n.) A foot journey or excursion; as, to go on a tramp; a long tramp.
Tramp (n.) A foot traveler; a tramper; often used in a bad sense for a vagrant or wandering vagabond.
Tramp (n.) The sound of the foot, or of feet, on the earth, as in marching.
Tramp (n.) A tool for trimming hedges.
Tramp (n.) A plate of iron worn to protect the sole of the foot, or the shoe, when digging with a spade.
Tramper (n.) One who tramps; a stroller; a vagrant or vagabond; a tramp.
Trampled (imp. & p. p.) of Trample
Trampling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trample
Trample (v. t.) To tread under foot; to tread down; to prostrate by treading; as, to trample grass or flowers.
Trample (v. t.) Fig.: To treat with contempt and insult.
Trample (v. i.) To tread with force and rapidity; to stamp.
Trample (v. i.) To tread in contempt; -- with on or upon.
Trample (n.) The act of treading under foot; also, the sound produced by trampling.
Trampler (n.) One who tramples; one who treads down; as, a trampler on nature's law.
Trampoose (v. i.) To walk with labor, or heavily; to tramp.
Tramroad (n.) A road prepared for easy transit of trams or wagons, by forming the wheel tracks of smooth beams of wood, blocks of stone, or plates of iron.
Tramway (n.) Same as Tramroad.
Tramway (n.) A railway laid in the streets of a town or city, on which cars for passengers or for freight are drawn by horses; a horse railroad.
Tranation (n.) The act of swimming over.
Trance (n.) A tedious journey.
Trance (n.) A state in which the soul seems to have passed out of the body into another state of being, or to be rapt into visions; an ecstasy.
Trance (n.) A condition, often simulating death, in which there is a total suspension of the power of voluntary movement, with abolition of all evidences of mental activity and the reduction to a minimum of all the vital functions so that the patient lies still and apparently unconscious of surrounding objects, while the pulsation of the heart and the breathing, although still present, are almost or altogether imperceptible.
Tranced (imp. & p. p.) of Trance
Trancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trance
Trance (v. t.) To entrance.
Trance (v. t.) To pass over or across; to traverse.
Trance (v. i.) To pass; to travel.
Tranect (n.) A ferry.
Trangram (n.) Something intricately contrived; a contrived; a puzzle.
Trannel (n.) A treenail.
Tranquil (a.) Quiet; calm; undisturbed; peaceful; not agitated; as, the atmosphere is tranquil; the condition of the country is tranquil.
Tranquilization (n.) Alt. of Tranquillization
Tranquillization (n.) The act of tranquilizing, or the state of being tranquilized.
Tranquilized (imp. & p. p.) of Tranquillize
Tranquilliized () of Tranquillize
Tranquilizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tranquillize
Tranquillizing () of Tranquillize
Tranquilize (v. t.) Alt. of Tranquillize
Tranquillize (v. t.) To render tranquil; to allay when agitated; to compose; to make calm and peaceful; as, to tranquilize a state disturbed by factions or civil commotions; to tranquilize the mind.
Tranquilizer (n.) Alt. of Tranquillizer
Tranquillizer (n.) One who, or that which, tranquilizes.
Tranquilizing (a.) Alt. of Tranquillizing
Tranquillizing (a.) Making tranquil; calming.
Tranquillity (n.) The quality or state of being tranquil; calmness; composure.
Tranquilly (adv.) In a tranquil manner; calmly.
Tranquilness (n.) Quality or state of being tranquil.
Trans- () A prefix, signifying over, beyond, through and through, on the other side, as in transalpine, beyond the Alps; transform, to form through and through, that is, anew, transfigure.
Transacted (imp. & p. p.) of Transact
Transacting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transact
Transact (v. t.) To carry through; to do; perform; to manage; as, to transact commercial business; to transact business by an agent.
Transact (v. i.) To conduct matters; to manage affairs.
Transaction (n.) The doing or performing of any business; management of any affair; performance.
Transaction (n.) That which is done; an affair; as, the transactions on the exchange.
Transaction (n.) An adjustment of a dispute between parties by mutual agreement.
Transactor (n.) One who transacts, performs, or conducts any business.
Transalpine (a.) Being on the farther side of the Alps in regard to Rome, that is, on the north or west side of the Alps; of or pertaining to the region or the people beyond the Alps; as, transalpine Gaul; -- opposed to cisalpine.
Transalpine (n.) A native or inhabitant of a country beyond the Alps, that is, out of Italy.
Transanimated (imp. & p. p.) of Transanimate
Transanimating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transanimate
Transanimate (v. t.) To animate with a soul conveyed from another body.
Transanimation (n.) The conveyance of a soul from one body to another.
Transatlantic (a.) Lying or being beyond the Atlantic Ocean.
Transatlantic (a.) Crossing the Atlantic Ocean.
Transaudient (a.) Permitting the passage of sound.
Transcalency (n.) The quality or state of being transcalent.
Transcalent (a.) Pervious to, or permitting the passage of, heat.
Transcended (imp. & p. p.) of Transcend
Transcending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transcend
Transcend (v. t.) To rise above; to surmount; as, lights in the heavens transcending the region of the clouds.
Transcend (v. t.) To pass over; to go beyond; to exceed.
Transcend (v. t.) To surpass; to outgo; to excel; to exceed.
Transcend (v. i.) To climb; to mount.
Transcend (v. i.) To be transcendent; to excel.
Transcendence () Alt. of Transcendency
Transcendency () The quality or state of being transcendent; superior excellence; supereminence.
Transcendency () Elevation above truth; exaggeration.
Transcendent (a.) Very excellent; superior or supreme in excellence; surpassing others; as, transcendent worth; transcendent valor.
Transcendent (a.) Transcending, or reaching beyond, the limits of human knowledge; -- applied to affirmations and speculations concerning what lies beyond the reach of the human intellect.
Trancscendent (n.) That which surpasses or is supereminent; that which is very excellent.
Trancscendental (a.) Supereminent; surpassing others; as, transcendental being or qualities.
Trancscendental (a.) In the Kantian system, of or pertaining to that which can be determined a priori in regard to the fundamental principles of all human knowledge. What is transcendental, therefore, transcends empiricism; but is does not transcend all human knowledge, or become transcendent. It simply signifies the a priori or necessary conditions of experience which, though affording the conditions of experience, transcend the sphere of that contingent knowledge which is acquired by experience.
Trancscendental (a.) Vaguely and ambitiously extravagant in speculation, imagery, or diction.
Transcendental (n.) A transcendentalist.
Transcendentalism (n.) The transcending, or going beyond, empiricism, and ascertaining a priori the fundamental principles of human knowledge.
Transcendentalism (n.) Ambitious and imaginative vagueness in thought, imagery, or diction.
Transcendentalist (n.) One who believes in transcendentalism.
Transcendentality (n.) The quality or state of being transcendental.
Transcendentally (adv.) In a transcendental manner.
Transcendently (adv.) In a transcendent manner.
Transcendentness (n.) Same as Transcendence.
Transcension (n.) The act of transcending, or surpassing; also, passage over.
Transcolated (imp. & p. p.) of Transcolate
Transcolating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transcolate
Transcolate (v. t.) To cause to pass through a sieve or colander; to strain, as through a sieve.
Transcolation (n.) Act of transcolating, or state of being transcolated.
Transcontinental (a.) Extending or going across a continent; as, a transcontinental railroad or journey.
Transcorporate (v. i.) To transmigrate.
Transcribbler (n.) A transcriber; -- used in contempt.
Transcribed (imp. & p. p.) of Transcribe
Transcribing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transcribe
Transcribe (v. t.) To write over again, or in the same words; to copy; as, to transcribe Livy or Tacitus; to transcribe a letter.
Transcriber (n.) One who transcribes, or writes from a copy; a copier; a copyist.
Transcript (n.) That which has been transcribed; a writing or composition consisting of the same words as the original; a written copy.
Transcript (n.) A copy of any kind; an imitation.
Transcript (n.) A written version of what was said orally; as, a transcript of a trial.
Transcription (n.) The act or process of transcribing, or copying; as, corruptions creep into books by repeated transcriptions.
Transcription (n.) A copy; a transcript.
Transcription (n.) An arrangement of a composition for some other instrument or voice than that for which it was originally written, as the translating of a song, a vocal or instrumental quartet, or even an orchestral work, into a piece for the piano; an adaptation; an arrangement; -- a name applied by modern composers for the piano to a more or less fanciful and ornate reproduction on their own instrument of a song or other piece not originally intended for it; as, Liszt's transcriptions of songs by Schubert.
Transcriptive (a.) Done as from a copy; having the style or appearance of a transcription.
Transcur (v. i.) To run or rove to and fro.
Transcurrence (n.) A roving hither and thither.
Transcursion (n.) A rambling or ramble; a passage over bounds; an excursion.
Transdialect (v. t.) To change or translate from one dialect into another.
Transduction (n.) The act of conveying over.
Transe (n.) See Trance.
Transelement (v. t.) Alt. of Transelementate
Transelementate (v. t.) To change or transpose the elements of; to transubstantiate.
Transelementation (n.) Transubstantiation.
Transenne (n.) A transom.
Transept (n.) The transversal part of a church, which crosses at right angles to the greatest length, and between the nave and choir. In the basilicas, this had often no projection at its two ends. In Gothic churches these project these project greatly, and should be called the arms of the transept. It is common, however, to speak of the arms themselves as the transepts.
Transexion (n.) Change of sex.
Transfeminate (v. t.) To change into a woman, as a man.
Transferred (imp. & p. p.) of Transfer
Transferring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transfer
Transfer (v. t.) To convey from one place or person another; to transport, remove, or cause to pass, to another place or person; as, to transfer the laws of one country to another; to transfer suspicion.
Transfer (v. t.) To make over the possession or control of; to pass; to convey, as a right, from one person to another; to give; as, the title to land is transferred by deed.
Transfer (v. t.) To remove from one substance or surface to another; as, to transfer drawings or engravings to a lithographic stone.
Transfer (n.) The act of transferring, or the state of being transferred; the removal or conveyance of a thing from one place or person to another.
Transfer (n.) The conveyance of right, title, or property, either real or personal, from one person to another, whether by sale, by gift, or otherwise.
Transfer (n.) That which is transferred.
Transfer (n.) A picture, or the like, removed from one body or ground to another, as from wood to canvas, or from one piece of canvas to another.
Transfer (n.) A drawing or writing printed off from one surface on another, as in ceramics and in many decorative arts.
Transfer (n.) A soldier removed from one troop, or body of troops, and placed in another.
Transfer (n.) A pathological process by virtue of which a unilateral morbid condition on being abolished on one side of the body makes its appearance in the corresponding region upon the other side.
Transferability (n.) The quality or state of being transferable.
Transferable (a.) Capable of being transferred or conveyed from one place or person to another.
Transferable (a.) Negotiable, as a note, bill of exchange, or other evidence of property, that may be conveyed from one person to another by indorsement or other writing; capable of being transferred with no loss of value; as, the stocks of most public companies are transferable; some tickets are not transferable.
Transferee (n.) The person to whom a transfer in made.
Transference (n.) The act of transferring; conveyance; passage; transfer.
Transferography (n.) The act or process of copying inscriptions, or the like, by making transfers.
Transferrence (n.) See Transference.
Transferrer (n.) One who makes a transfer or conveyance.
Transferrible (a.) Capable of being transferred; transferable.
Transfigurate (v. t.) To transfigure; to transform.
Transfiguratien (n.) A change of form or appearance; especially, the supernatural change in the personal appearance of our Savior on the mount.
Transfiguratien (n.) A feast held by some branches of the Christian church on the 6th of August, in commemoration of the miraculous change above mentioned.
Transfigured (imp. & p. p.) of Transfigure
Transfiguring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transfigure
Transfigure (v. t.) To change the outward form or appearance of; to metamorphose; to transform.
Transfigure (v. t.) Especially, to change to something exalted and glorious; to give an ideal form to.
Transfixed (imp. & p. p.) of Transfix
Transfixing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transfix
Transfix (v. t.) To pierce through, as with a pointed weapon; to impale; as, to transfix one with a dart.
Transfixion (n.) The act of transfixing, or the state of being transfixed, or pierced.
Transfluent (a.) Flowing or running across or through; as, a transfluent stream.
Transfluent (a.) Passing or flowing through a bridge; -- said of water.
Transflux (n.) A flowing through, across, or beyond.
Transforate (v. t.) To bore through; to perforate.
Transformed (imp. & p. p.) of Transform
Transforming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transform
Transform (v. t.) To change the form of; to change in shape or appearance; to metamorphose; as, a caterpillar is ultimately transformed into a butterfly.
Transform (v. t.) To change into another substance; to transmute; as, the alchemists sought to transform lead into gold.
Transform (v. t.) To change in nature, disposition, heart, character, or the like; to convert.
Transform (v. t.) To change, as an algebraic expression or geometrical figure, into another from without altering its value.
Transform (v. i.) To be changed in form; to be metamorphosed.
Transformable (a.) Capable of being transformed or changed.
Transformation (n.) The act of transforming, or the state of being transformed; change of form or condition.
Transformation (n.) Any change in an organism which alters its general character and mode of life, as in the development of the germ into the embryo, the egg into the animal, the larva into the insect (metamorphosis), etc.; also, the change which the histological units of a tissue are prone to undergo. See Metamorphosis.
Transformation (n.) Change of one from of material into another, as in assimilation; metabolism; metamorphosis.
Transformation (n.) The imagined possible or actual change of one metal into another; transmutation.
Transformation (n.) A change in disposition, heart, character, or the like; conversion.
Transformation (n.) The change, as of an equation or quantity, into another form without altering the value.
Transformative (a.) Having power, or a tendency, to transform.
Transformer (n.) One who, or that which, transforms. Specif. (Elec.), an apparatus for producing from a given electrical current another current of different voltage.
Transformism (n.) The hypothesis, or doctrine, that living beings have originated by the modification of some other previously existing forms of living matter; -- opposed to abiogenesis.
Transfreight (v. i.) To transfrete.
Transfretation (n.) The act of passing over a strait or narrow sea.
Transfrete (v. i.) To pass over a strait or narrow sea.
Transfuge (n.) Alt. of Transfugitive
Transfugitive (n.) One who flees from one side to another; hence, a deserter; a turncoat; an apostate.
Transfund (v. t.) To pour from one vessel into another; to transfuse.
Transfused (imp. & p. p.) of Transfuse
Transfusing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transfuse
Transfuse (v. t.) To pour, as liquid, out of one vessel into another; to transfer by pouring.
Transfuse (v. t.) To transfer, as blood, from the veins or arteries of one man or animal to those of another.
Transfuse (v. t.) To cause to pass from to another; to cause to be instilled or imbibed; as, to transfuse a spirit of patriotism into a man; to transfuse a love of letters.
Transfusible (a.) Capable of being transfused; transferable by transfusion.
Transfusion (n.) The act of transfusing, or pouring, as liquor, out of one vessel into another.
Transfusion (n.) The act or operation of transferring the blood of one man or animal into the vascular system of another; also, the introduction of any fluid into the blood vessels, or into a cavity of the body from which it can readily be adsorbed into the vessels; intrafusion; as, the peritoneal transfusion of milk.
Transfusive (a.) Tending to transfuse; having power to transfuse.
Transgressed (imp. & p. p.) of Transgress
Transgressing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transgress
Transgress (v. t.) To pass over or beyond; to surpass.
Transgress (v. t.) Hence, to overpass, as any prescribed as the /imit of duty; to break or violate, as a law, civil or moral.
Transgress (v. t.) To offend against; to vex.
Transgress (v. i.) To offend against the law; to sin.
Transgression (n.) The act of transgressing, or of passing over or beyond any law, civil or moral; the violation of a law or known principle of rectitude; breach of command; fault; offense; crime; sin.
Transgressional (a.) Of pertaining to transgression; involving a transgression.
Transgressive (a.) Disposed or tending to transgress; faulty; culpable. -
Transgressor (n.) One who transgresses; one who breaks a law, or violates a command; one who violates any known rule or principle of rectitude; a sinner.
Transhape (v. t.) To transshape.
Tranship (v. t.) Same as Transship.
Transhipment (n.) Same as Transshipment.
Transhuman (a.) More than human; superhuman.
Transhumanize (v. t.) To make more than human; to purity; to elevate above humanity.
Transience (n.) Alt. of Transiency
Transiency (n.) The quality of being transient; transientness.
Transient (a.) Passing before the sight or perception, or, as it were, moving over or across a space or scene viewed, and then disappearing; hence, of short duration; not permanent; not lasting or durable; not stationary; passing; fleeting; brief; transitory; as, transient pleasure.
Transient (a.) Hasty; momentary; imperfect; brief; as, a transient view of a landscape.
Transient (a.) Staying for a short time; not regular or permanent; as, a transient guest; transient boarders.
Transient (n.) That which remains but for a brief time.
Transilience (n.) Alt. of Transiliency
Transiliency (n.) A leap across or from one thing to another.
Transire (n.) A customhouse clearance for a coasting vessel; a permit.
Transit (n.) The act of passing; passage through or over.
Transit (n.) The act or process of causing to pass; conveyance; as, the transit of goods through a country.
Transit (n.) A line or route of passage or conveyance; as, the Nicaragua transit.
Transit (n.) The passage of a heavenly body over the meridian of a place, or through the field of a telescope.
Transit (n.) The passage of a smaller body across the disk of a larger, as of Venus across the sun's disk, or of a satellite or its shadow across the disk of its primary.
Transit (n.) An instrument resembling a theodolite, used by surveyors and engineers; -- called also transit compass, and surveyor's transit.
Transit (v. t.) To pass over the disk of (a heavenly body).
Transition (n.) Passage from one place or state to another; charge; as, the transition of the weather from hot to cold.
Transition (n.) A direct or indirect passing from one key to another; a modulation.
Transition (n.) A passing from one subject to another.
Transition (n.) Change from one form to another.
Transitional (a.) Of or pertaining to transition; involving or denoting transition; as, transitional changes; transitional stage.
Transitionary (a.) Transitional.
Transitive (a.) Having the power of making a transit, or passage.
Transitive (a.) Effected by transference of signification.
Transitive (a.) Passing over to an object; expressing an action which is not limited to the agent or subject, but which requires an object to complete the sense; as, a transitive verb, for example, he holds the book.
Transitorily (adv.) In a transitory manner; with brief continuance.
Transitoriness (n.) The quality or state of being transitory; speedy passage or departure.
Transitory (a.) Continuing only for a short time; not enduring; fleeting; evanescent.
Translatable (a.) Capable of being translated, or rendered into another language.
Translated (imp. & p. p.) of Translate
Translating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Translate
Translate (v. t.) To bear, carry, or remove, from one place to another; to transfer; as, to translate a tree.
Translate (v. t.) To change to another condition, position, place, or office; to transfer; hence, to remove as by death.
Translate (v. t.) To remove to heaven without a natural death.
Translate (v. t.) To remove, as a bishop, from one see to another.
Translate (v. t.) To render into another language; to express the sense of in the words of another language; to interpret; hence, to explain or recapitulate in other words.
Translate (v. t.) To change into another form; to transform.
Translate (v. t.) To cause to remove from one part of the body to another; as, to translate a disease.
Translate (v. t.) To cause to lose senses or recollection; to entrance.
Translate (v. i.) To make a translation; to be engaged in translation.
Translation (n.) The act of translating, removing, or transferring; removal; also, the state of being translated or removed; as, the translation of Enoch; the translation of a bishop.
Translation (n.) The act of rendering into another language; interpretation; as, the translation of idioms is difficult.
Translation (n.) That which is obtained by translating something a version; as, a translation of the Scriptures.
Translation (n.) A transfer of meaning in a word or phrase, a metaphor; a tralation.
Translation (n.) Transfer of meaning by association; association of ideas.
Translation (n.) Motion in which all the points of the moving body have at any instant the same velocity and direction of motion; -- opposed to rotation.
Translatitious (a.) Metaphorical; tralatitious; also, foreign; exotic.
Translative (a.) tropical; figurative; as, a translative sense.
Translator (n.) One who translates; esp., one who renders into another language; one who expresses the sense of words in one language by equivalent words in another.
Translator (n.) A repeating instrument.
Translatorship (n.) The office or dignity of a translator.
Translatory (a.) Serving to translate; transferring.
Translatress (n.) A woman who translates.
Translavation (n.) A laving or lading from one vessel to another.
Transliterate (v. t.) To express or represent in the characters of another alphabet; as, to transliterate Sanskrit words by means of English letters.
Transliteration (n.) The act or product of transliterating, or of expressing words of a language by means of the characters of another alphabet.
Translocation (n.) removal of things from one place to another; substitution of one thing for another.
Translucence (n.) Alt. of Translucency
Translucency (n.) The quality or state of being translucent; clearness; partial transparency.
Translucent (a.) Transmitting rays of light without permitting objects to be distinctly seen; partially transparent.
Translucent (a.) Transparent; clear.
Translucently (adv.) In a translucent manner.
Translucid (a.) Translucent.
Translunary (a.) Being or lying beyond the moon; hence, ethereal; -- opposed to sublunary.
Transmarine (a.) Lying or being beyond the sea.
Transmeable (a.) Alt. of Transmeatable
Transmeatable (a.) Capable of being passed over or traversed; passable.
Transmeate (v. t.) To pass over or beyond.
Transmeation (n.) The act of transmeating; a passing through or beyond.
Transmew (v. t. & i.) To transmute; to transform; to metamorphose.
Transmigrant (a.) Migrating or passing from one place or state to another; passing from one residence to another.
Transmigrant (n.) One who transmigrates.
Transmigrated (imp. & p. p.) of Transmigrate
Transmigrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transmigrate
Transmigrate (v. i.) To pass from one country or jurisdiction to another for the purpose of residence, as men or families; to migrate.
Transmigrate (v. i.) To pass from one body or condition into another.
Transmigration (n.) The act of passing from one country to another; migration.
Transmigration (n.) The passing of the soul at death into another mortal body; metempsychosis.
Transmigrator (n.) One who transmigrates.
Transmigratory (a.) Passing from one body or state to another.
Transmissibility (n.) The quality of being transmissible.
Transmissible (a.) Capable of being transmitted from one to another; capable of being passed through any body or substance.
Transmission (n.) The act of transmitting, or the state of being transmitted; as, the transmission of letters, writings, papers, news, and the like, from one country to another; the transmission of rights, titles, or privileges, from father to son, or from one generation to another.
Transmission (n.) The right possessed by an heir or legatee of transmitting to his successor or successors any inheritance, legacy, right, or privilege, to which he is entitled, even if he should die without enjoying or exercising it.
Transmissive (a.) Capable of being transmitted; derived, or handed down, from one to another.
Transmitted (imp. & p. p.) of Transmit
Transmitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transmit
Transmit (v. t.) To cause to pass over or through; to communicate by sending; to send from one person or place to another; to pass on or down as by inheritance; as, to transmit a memorial; to transmit dispatches; to transmit money, or bills of exchange, from one country to another.
Transmit (v. t.) To suffer to pass through; as, glass transmits light; metals transmit, or conduct, electricity.
Transmittal (n.) Transmission.
Transmittance (n.) Transmission.
Transmitter (n.) One who, or that which, transmits; specifically, that portion of a telegraphic or telephonic instrument by means of which a message is sent; -- opposed to receiver.
Transmittible (a.) Capable of being transmitted; transmissible.
Transmogrification (n.) The act of transmogrifying, or the state of being transmogrified; transformation.
Transmogrify (v. t.) To change into a different shape; to transform.
Transmove (v. t.) To move or change from one state into another; to transform.
Transmutability (n.) The quality of being transmutable.
Transmutable (a.) Capable of being transmuted or changed into a different substance, or into into something of a different form a nature; transformable.
Transmutation (n.) The act of transmuting, or the state of being transmuted; as, the transmutation of metals.
Transmutation (n.) The change or reduction of one figure or body into another of the same area or solidity, but of a different form, as of a triangle into a square.
Transmutation (n.) The change of one species into another, which is assumed to take place in any development theory of life; transformism.
Transmutationist (n.) One who believes in the transmutation of metals or of species.
Transmuted (imp. & p. p.) of Transmute
Transmuting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transmute
Transmute (v. t.) To change from one nature, form, or substance, into another; to transform.
Transmuter (n.) One who transmutes.
Transmutual (a.) Reciprocal; commutual.
Transnatation (n.) The act of swimming across, as a river.
Transnature (v. t.) To transfer or transform the nature of.
Transom (n.) A horizontal crossbar in a window, over a door, or between a door and a window above it. Transom is the horizontal, as mullion is the vertical, bar across an opening. See Illust. of Mullion.
Transom (n.) One of the principal transverse timbers of the stern, bolted to the sternpost and giving shape to the stern structure; -- called also transsummer.
Transom (n.) The piece of wood or iron connecting the cheeks of some gun carriages.
Transom (n.) The vane of a cross-staff.
Transom (n.) One of the crossbeams connecting the side frames of a truck with each other.
Transpadane (a.) Lying or being on the further side of the river Po with reference to Rome, that is, on the north side; -- opposed to cispadane.
Transpalatine (a.) Situated beyond or outside the palatine bone; -- said of a bone in the skull of some reptiles.
Transpare (v. t. & i.) To be, or cause to be, transparent; to appear, or cause to appear, or be seen, through something.
Transparence (n.) The quality or state of being transparent; transparency.
Transparencies (pl. ) of Transparency
Transparency (n.) The quality or condition of being transparent; transparence.
Transparency (n.) That which is transparent; especially, a picture painted on thin cloth or glass, or impressed on porcelain, or the like, to be viewed by natural or artificial light, which shines through it.
Transparent (a.) Having the property of transmitting rays of light, so that bodies can be distinctly seen through; pervious to light; diaphanous; pellucid; as, transparent glass; a transparent diamond; -- opposed to opaque.
Transparent (a.) Admitting the passage of light; open; porous; as, a transparent veil.
Transpass (v. t.) To pass over; as, Alexander transpassed the river.
Transpass (v. i.) To pass by; to pass away.
Transpassable (a.) Capable of being transpassed, or crossed over.
Transpatronize (v. t.) To transfer the patronage of.
Transpeciate (v. t.) To change from one species to another; to transform.
Transpicuous (a.) Transparent; pervious to the sight.
Transpierced (imp. & p. p.) of Transpierce
Transpiercing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transpierce
Transpierce (v. t.) To pierce through; to penetrate; to permeate; to pass through.
Transpirable (a.) Capable of being transpired, or of transpiring.
Transpiration (n.) The act or process of transpiring or excreting in the form of vapor; exhalation, as through the skin or other membranes of the body; as, pulmonary transpiration, or the excretion of aqueous vapor from the lungs. Perspiration is a form of transpiration.
Transpiration (n.) The evaporation of water, or exhalation of aqueous vapor, from cells and masses of tissue.
Transpiration (n.) The passing of gases through fine tubes, porous substances, or the like; as, transpiration through membranes.
Transpiratory (a.) Of or relating to transpiration.
Transpired (imp. & p. p.) of Transpire
Transpiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transpire
Transpire (v. i.) To pass off in the form of vapor or insensible perspiration; to exhale.
Transpire (v. i.) To evaporate from living cells.
Transpire (v. i.) To escape from secrecy; to become public; as, the proceedings of the council soon transpired.
Transpire (v. i.) To happen or come to pass; to occur.
Transpire (v. t.) To excrete through the skin; to give off in the form of vapor; to exhale; to perspire.
Transpire (v. t.) To evaporate (moisture) from living cells.
Transplaced (imp. & p. p.) of Transplace
Transplacing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transplace
Transplace (v. t.) To remove across some space; to put in an opposite or another place.
Transplanted (imp. & p. p.) of Transplant
Transplanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transplant
Transplant (v. t.) To remove, and plant in another place; as, to transplant trees.
Transplant (v. t.) To remove, and settle or establish for residence in another place; as, to transplant inhabitants.
Transplantation (n.) The act of transplanting, or the state of being transplanted; also, removal.
Transplantation (n.) The removal of tissues from a healthy part, and the insertion of them in another place where there is a lesion; as, the transplantation of tissues in autoplasty.
Transplantation (n.) The removal of a bodily organ or of tissues from one person, and the insertion of them into another person to replace a damaged organ or tissue; as, the transplantation of a heart, kidney, or liver.
Transplanter (n.) One who transplants; also, a machine for transplanting trees.
Transplendency (n.) Quality or state of being transplendent.
Transplendent (a.) Resplendent in the highest degree.
Transported (imp. & p. p.) of Transport
Transporting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transport
Transport (v. t.) To carry or bear from one place to another; to remove; to convey; as, to transport goods; to transport troops.
Transport (v. t.) To carry, or cause to be carried, into banishment, as a criminal; to banish.
Transport (v. t.) To carry away with vehement emotion, as joy, sorrow, complacency, anger, etc.; to ravish with pleasure or ecstasy; as, music transports the soul.
Transport (v.) Transportation; carriage; conveyance.
Transport (v.) A vessel employed for transporting, especially for carrying soldiers, warlike stores, or provisions, from one place to another, or to convey convicts to their destination; -- called also transport ship, transport vessel.
Transport (v.) Vehement emotion; passion; ecstasy; rapture.
Transport (v.) A convict transported, or sentenced to exile.
Transportability (n.) The quality or state of being transportable.
Transportable (a.) Capable of being transported.
Transportable (a.) Incurring, or subject to, the punishment of transportation; as, a transportable offense.
Transportal (n.) Transportation; the act of removing from one locality to another.
Transportance (n.) Transportation.
Transportant (a.) Transporting; /avishing; as, transportant love.
Transportation (n.) The act of transporting, or the state of being transported; carriage from one place to another; removal; conveyance.
Transportation (n.) Transport; ecstasy.
Transported (a.) Conveyed from one place to another; figuratively, carried away with passion or pleasure; entranced.
Transporter (n.) One who transports.
Transporting (a.) That transports; fig., ravishing.
Transportingly (adv.) So as to transport.
Transportment (n.) The act of transporting, or the state of being transported; transportation.
Transposable (a.) That may transposed; as, a transposable phrase.
Transposal (n.) The act of transposing, or the state of being transposed; transposition.
Transposed (imp. & p. p.) of Transpose
Transposing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transpose
Transpose (v. t.) To change the place or order of; to substitute one for the other of; to exchange, in respect of position; as, to transpose letters, words, or propositions.
Transpose (v. t.) To change; to transform; to invert.
Transpose (v. t.) To bring, as any term of an equation, from one side over to the other, without destroying the equation; thus, if a + b = c, and we make a = c - b, then b is said to be transposed.
Transpose (v. t.) To change the natural order of, as words.
Transpose (v. t.) To change the key of.
Transposer (n.) One who transposes.
Transposition (n.) The act of transposing, or the state of being transposed.
Transposition (n.) The bringing of any term of an equation from one side over to the other without destroying the equation.
Transposition (n.) A change of the natural order of words in a sentence; as, the Latin and Greek languages admit transposition, without inconvenience, to a much greater extent than the English.
Transposition (n.) A change of a composition into another key.
Transpositional (a.) Of or pertaining to transposition; involving transposition.
Transpositive (a.) Made by transposing; consisting in transposition; transposable.
Transprint (v. t.) To transfer to the wrong place in printing; to print out of place.
Transprose (v. t.) To change from prose into verse; to versify; also, to change from verse into prose.
Transregionate (a.) Foreign.
Transshaped (imp. & p. p.) of Transshape
Transshaping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transshape
Transshape (v. t.) To change into another shape or form; to transform.
Transship (v. t.) To transfer from one ship or conveyance to another.
Transshipment (n.) The act of transshipping, or transferring, as goods, from one ship or conveyance to another.
Transubstantiate (v. t.) To change into another substance.
Transubstantiate (v. t.) To change, as the sacramental elements, bread and wine, into the flesh and blood of Christ.
Transubstantiation (n.) A change into another substance.
Transubstantiation (n.) The doctrine held by Roman Catholics, that the bread and wine in the Mass is converted into the body and blood of Christ; -- distinguished from consubstantiation, and impanation.
Transubstantiator (n.) One who maintains the doctrine of transubstantiation.
Transudation (n.) The act or process of transuding.
Transudation (n.) Same as Exosmose.
Transudatory (a.) Of or pertaining to transudation; passing by transudation.
Transuded (imp. & p. p.) of Transude
Transuding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transude
Transude (v. i.) To pass, as perspirable matter does, through the pores or interstices of textures; as, liquor may transude through leather or wood.
Transume (v. t.) To change; to convert.
Transsummer (n.) See Transom, 2.
Transumpt (n.) A copy or exemplification of a record.
Transumption (n.) Act of taking from one place to another.
Transumptive (a.) Taking from one to another; metaphorical.
Transvasate (v. t.) To pour out of one vessel into another.
Transvasation (n.) The act or process of pouring out of one vessel into another.
Transvection (n.) The act of conveying or carrying over.
Transverberate (v. t.) To beat or strike through.
Transversal (a.) Running or lying across; transverse; as, a transversal line.
Transversal (n.) A straight line which traverses or intersects any system of other lines, as a line intersecting the three sides of a triangle or the sides produced.
Transverse (a.) Lying or being across, or in a crosswise direction; athwart; -- often opposed to longitudinal.
Transverse (n.) Anything that is transverse or athwart.
Transverse (n.) The longer, or transverse, axis of an ellipse.
Transversed (imp. & p. p.) of Transverse
Transversing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Transverse
Transverse (v. t.) To overturn; to change.
Transverse (v. t.) To change from prose into verse, or from verse into prose.
Transversely (adv.) In a transverse manner.
Transversion (n.) The act of changing from prose into verse, or from verse into prose.
Transvert (v. t.) To cause to turn across; to transverse.
Transvertible (a.) Capable of being transverted.
Transvolation (n.) The act of flying beyond or across.
Trant (v. i.) To traffic in an itinerary manner; to peddle.
Tranter (n.) One who trants; a peddler; a carrier.
Trapped (imp. & p. p.) of Trap
Trapping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trap
Trap (v. t.) To dress with ornaments; to adorn; -- said especially of horses.
Trap (n.) An old term rather loosely used to designate various dark-colored, heavy igneous rocks, including especially the feldspathic-augitic rocks, basalt, dolerite, amygdaloid, etc., but including also some kinds of diorite. Called also trap rock.
Trap (a.) Of or pertaining to trap rock; as, a trap dike.
Trap (n.) A machine or contrivance that shuts suddenly, as with a spring, used for taking game or other animals; as, a trap for foxes.
Trap (n.) Fig.: A snare; an ambush; a stratagem; any device by which one may be caught unawares.
Trap (n.) A wooden instrument shaped somewhat like a shoe, used in the game of trapball. It consists of a pivoted arm on one end of which is placed the ball to be thrown into the air by striking the other end. Also, a machine for throwing into the air glass balls, clay pigeons, etc., to be shot at.
Trap (n.) The game of trapball.
Trap (n.) A bend, sag, or partitioned chamber, in a drain, soil pipe, sewer, etc., arranged so that the liquid contents form a seal which prevents passage of air or gas, but permits the flow of liquids.
Trap (n.) A place in a water pipe, pump, etc., where air accumulates for want of an outlet.
Trap (n.) A wagon, or other vehicle.
Trap (n.) A kind of movable stepladder.
Trap (v. t.) To catch in a trap or traps; as, to trap foxes.
Trap (v. t.) Fig.: To insnare; to take by stratagem; to entrap.
Trap (v. t.) To provide with a trap; as, to trap a drain; to trap a sewer pipe. See 4th Trap, 5.
Trap (v. i.) To set traps for game; to make a business of trapping game; as, to trap for beaver.
Trapan (n.) A snare; a stratagem; a trepan. See 3d Trepan.
Trapanned (imp. & p. p.) of Trapan
Trapanning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trapan
Trapan (v. t.) To insnare; to catch by stratagem; to entrap; to trepan.
Trapanner (n.) One who trapans, or insnares.
Trapball (n.) An old game of ball played with a trap. See 4th Trap, 4.
Trapdoor (n.) A lifting or sliding door covering an opening in a roof or floor.
Trapdoor (n.) A door in a level for regulating the ventilating current; -- called also weather door.
Trape (v. i.) To walk or run about in an idle or slatternly manner; to traipse.
Trapes (n.) A slattern; an idle, sluttish, or untidy woman.
Trapes (v. i.) To go about in an idle or slatternly fashion; to trape; to traipse.
Trapezate (a.) Having the form of a trapezium; trapeziform.
Trapeze (n.) A trapezium. See Trapezium, 1.
Trapeze (n.) A swinging horizontal bar, suspended at each end by a rope; -- used by gymnasts.
Trapeziform (a.) Having the form of a trapezium; trapezoid.
Trapeziums (pl. ) of Trapezium
Trapezia (pl. ) of Trapezium
Trapezium (n.) A plane figure bounded by four right lines, of which no two are parallel.
Trapezium (n.) A bone of the carpus at the base of the first metacarpal, or thumb.
Trapezium (n.) A region on the ventral side of the brain, either just back of the pons Varolii, or, as in man, covered by the posterior extension of its transverse fibers.
Trapezohedral (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a trapezohedron.
Trapezohedron (n.) A solid bounded by twenty-four equal and similar trapeziums; a tetragonal trisoctahedron. See the Note under Trisoctahedron.
Trapezohedron (n.) A tetartohedral solid of the hexagonal system, bounded by six trapezoidal planes. The faces of this form are common on quartz crystals.
Trapezoid (n.) A plane four-sided figure, having two sides parallel to each other.
Trapezoid (n.) A bone of the carpus at the base of the second metacarpal, or index finger.
Trapezoid (a.) Having the form of a trapezoid; trapezoidal; as, the trapezoid ligament which connects the coracoid process and the clavicle.
Trapezoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the trapezoid ligament; as, the trapezoid line.
Trapezoidal (a.) Having the form of a trapezoid; trapezoid.
Trapezoidal (a.) Trapezohedral.
Traphole (n.) See Trou-de-loup.
Trappean (a.) Of or pertaining to trap; being of the nature of trap.
Trapper (n.) One who traps animals; one who makes a business of trapping animals for their furs.
Trapper (n.) A boy who opens and shuts a trapdoor in a gallery or level.
Trappings (n. pl.) That which serves to trap or adorn; ornaments; dress; superficial decorations.
Trappings (n. pl.) Specifically, ornaments to be put on horses.
Trappist (n.) A monk belonging to a branch of the Cistercian Order, which was established by Armand de Rance in 1660 at the monastery of La Trappe in Normandy. Extreme austerity characterizes their discipline. They were introduced permanently into the United States in 1848, and have monasteries in Iowa and Kentucky.
Trappous (n.) Of or performance to trap; resembling trap, or partaking of its form or qualities; trappy.
Trappures (n. pl.) Trappings for a horse.
Trappy (a.) Same as Trappous.
Traps (n. pl.) Small or portable articles for dress, furniture, or use; goods; luggage; things.
Trapstick (n.) A stick used in playing the game of trapball; hence, fig., a slender leg.
Trash (n.) That which is worthless or useless; rubbish; refuse.
Trash (n.) Especially, loppings and leaves of trees, bruised sugar cane, or the like.
Trash (n.) A worthless person.
Trash (n.) A collar, leash, or halter used to restrain a dog in pursuing game.
Trashed (imp. & p. p.) of Trash
Trashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trash
Trash (v. t.) To free from trash, or worthless matter; hence, to lop; to crop, as to trash the rattoons of sugar cane.
Trash (v. t.) To treat as trash, or worthless matter; hence, to spurn, humiliate, or crush.
Trash (v. t.) To hold back by a trash or leash, as a dog in pursuing game; hence, to retard, encumber, or restrain; to clog; to hinder vexatiously.
Trash (v. i.) To follow with violence and trampling.
Trashily (adv.) In a trashy manner.
Trashiness (n.) The quality or state of being trashy.
Trashy (superl.) Like trash; containing much trash; waste; rejected; worthless; useless; as, a trashy novel.
Trass (n.) A white to gray volcanic tufa, formed of decomposed trachytic cinders; -- sometimes used as a cement. Hence, a coarse sort of plaster or mortar, durable in water, and used to line cisterns and other reservoirs of water.
Traulism (n.) A stammering or stuttering.
Traumatic (a.) Of or pertaining to wounds; applied to wounds.
Traumatic (a.) Adapted to the cure of wounds; vulnerary.
Traumatic (a.) Produced by wounds; as, traumatic tetanus.
Traumatic (n.) A traumatic medicine.
Traumatism (n.) A wound or injury directly produced by causes external to the body; also, violence producing a wound or injury; as, rupture of the stomach caused by traumatism.
Traunce (n. & v.) See Trance.
Traunt (v. i.) Same as Trant.
Traunter (n.) Same as Tranter.
Travail (n.) Labor with pain; severe toil or exertion.
Travail (n.) Parturition; labor; as, an easy travail.
Travailed (imp. & p. p.) of Travail
Travailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Travail
Travail (n.) To labor with pain; to toil.
Travail (n.) To suffer the pangs of childbirth; to be in labor.
Travail (v. t.) To harass; to tire.
Travailous (a.) Causing travail; laborious.
Trave (n.) A crossbeam; a lay of joists.
Trave (n.) A wooden frame to confine an unruly horse or ox while shoeing.
Traveled (imp. & p. p.) of Travel
Travelled () of Travel
Traveling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Travel
Travelling () of Travel
Travel (v. i.) To labor; to travail.
Travel (v. i.) To go or march on foot; to walk; as, to travel over the city, or through the streets.
Travel (v. i.) To pass by riding, or in any manner, to a distant place, or to many places; to journey; as, a man travels for his health; he is traveling in California.
Travel (v. i.) To pass; to go; to move.
Travel (v. t.) To journey over; to traverse; as, to travel the continent.
Travel (v. t.) To force to journey.
Travel (n.) The act of traveling, or journeying from place to place; a journey.
Travel (n.) An account, by a traveler, of occurrences and observations during a journey; as, a book of travels; -- often used as the title of a book; as, Travels in Italy.
Travel (n.) The length of stroke of a reciprocating piece; as, the travel of a slide valve.
Travel (n.) Labor; parturition; travail.
Traveled (a.) Having made journeys; having gained knowledge or experience by traveling; hence, knowing; experienced.
Traveler (n.) One who travels; one who has traveled much.
Traveler (n.) A commercial agent who travels for the purpose of receiving orders for merchants, making collections, etc.
Traveler (n.) A traveling crane. See under Crane.
Traveler (n.) The metal loop which travels around the ring surrounding the bobbin, in a ring spinner.
Traveler (n.) An iron encircling a rope, bar, spar, or the like, and sliding thereon.
Travel-tainted (a.) Harassed; fatigued with travel.
Travers (a.) Across; athwart.
Traversable (a.) Capable of being traversed, or passed over; as, a traversable region.
Traversable (a.) Deniable; specifically (Law), liable to legal objection; as, a traversable presentment.
Traverse (a.) Lying across; being in a direction across something else; as, paths cut with traverse trenches.
Traverse (adv.) Athwart; across; crosswise.
Traverse (a.) Anything that traverses, or crosses.
Traverse (a.) Something that thwarts, crosses, or obstructs; a cross accident; as, he would have succeeded, had it not been for unlucky traverses not under his control.
Traverse (a.) A barrier, sliding door, movable screen, curtain, or the like.
Traverse (a.) A gallery or loft of communication from side to side of a church or other large building.
Traverse (a.) A work thrown up to intercept an enfilade, or reverse fire, along exposed passage, or line of work.
Traverse (a.) A formal denial of some matter of fact alleged by the opposite party in any stage of the pleadings. The technical words introducing a traverse are absque hoc, without this; that is, without this which follows.
Traverse (a.) The zigzag course or courses made by a ship in passing from one place to another; a compound course.
Traverse (a.) A line lying across a figure or other lines; a transversal.
Traverse (a.) A line surveyed across a plot of ground.
Traverse (a.) The turning of a gun so as to make it point in any desired direction.
Traverse (a.) A turning; a trick; a subterfuge.
Traversed (imp. & p. p.) of Traverse
Traversing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Traverse
Traverse (a.) To lay in a cross direction; to cross.
Traverse (a.) To cross by way of opposition; to thwart with obstacles; to obstruct; to bring to naught.
Traverse (a.) To wander over; to cross in traveling; as, to traverse the habitable globe.
Traverse (a.) To pass over and view; to survey carefully.
Traverse (a.) To turn to the one side or the other, in order to point in any direction; as, to traverse a cannon.
Traverse (a.) To plane in a direction across the grain of the wood; as, to traverse a board.
Traverse (a.) To deny formally, as what the opposite party has alleged. When the plaintiff or defendant advances new matter, he avers it to be true, and traverses what the other party has affirmed. To traverse an indictment or an office is to deny it.
Traverse (v. i.) To use the posture or motions of opposition or counteraction, as in fencing.
Traverse (v. i.) To turn, as on a pivot; to move round; to swivel; as, the needle of a compass traverses; if it does not traverse well, it is an unsafe guide.
Traverse (v. i.) To tread or move crosswise, as a horse that throws his croup to one side and his head to the other.
Traverser (n.) One who, or that which, traverses, or moves, as an index on a scale, and the like.
Traverser (n.) One who traverses, or denies.
Traverser (n.) A traverse table. See under Traverse, n.
Traversing (a.) Adjustable laterally; having a lateral motion, or a swinging motion; adapted for giving lateral motion.
Travertine (n.) A white concretionary form of calcium carbonate, usually hard and semicrystalline. It is deposited from the water of springs or streams holding lime in solution. Extensive deposits exist at Tivoli, near Rome.
Travesty (a.) Disguised by dress so as to be ridiculous; travestied; -- applied to a book or shorter composition.
Travesties (pl. ) of Travesty
Travesty (n.) A burlesque translation or imitation of a work.
Travestied (imp. & p. p.) of Travesty
Travesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Travesty
Travesty (v. t.) To translate, imitate, or represent, so as to render ridiculous or ludicrous.
Trawl (v. t.) To take fish, or other marine animals, with a trawl.
Trawl (n.) A fishing line, often extending a mile or more, having many short lines bearing hooks attached to it. It is used for catching cod, halibut, etc.; a boulter.
Trawl (n.) A large bag net attached to a beam with iron frames at its ends, and dragged at the bottom of the sea, -- used in fishing, and in gathering forms of marine life from the sea bottom.
Trawlboat (n.) A boat used in fishing with trawls or trawlnets.
Trawler (n.) One who, or that which, trawls.
Trawler (n.) A fishing vessel which trails a net behind it.
Trawlermen (pl. ) of Trawlerman
Trawlerman (n.) A fisherman who used unlawful arts and engines to catch fish.
Trawlnet (n.) Same as Trawl, n., 2.
Trawlwarp (n.) A rope passing through a block, used in managing or dragging a trawlnet.
Tray (v. t.) To betray; to deceive.
Trays (pl. ) of Tray
Tray (n.) A small trough or wooden vessel, sometimes scooped out of a block of wood, for various domestic uses, as in making bread, chopping meat, etc.
Tray (n.) A flat, broad vessel on which dishes, glasses, etc., are carried; a waiter; a salver.
Tray (n.) A shallow box, generally without a top, often used within a chest, trunk, box, etc., as a removable receptacle for small or light articles.
Trayfuls (pl. ) of Trayful
Trayful (n.) As much as a tray will hold; enough to fill a tray.
Trays (n. pl.) See Trais.
Tray-trip (n.) An old game played with dice.
Treacher (n.) A traitor; a cheat.
Treacherous (a.) Like a traitor; involving treachery; violating allegiance or faith pledged; traitorous to the state or sovereign; perfidious in private life; betraying a trust; faithless.
Treachery (n.) Violation of allegiance or of faith and confidence; treasonable or perfidious conduct; perfidy; treason.
Treachetour (n.) Alt. of Treachour
Treachour (n.) A traitor.
Treacle (n.) A remedy against poison. See Theriac, 1.
Treacle (n.) A sovereign remedy; a cure.
Treacle (n.) Molasses; sometimes, specifically, the molasses which drains from the sugar-refining molds, and which is also called sugarhouse molasses.
Treacle (n.) A saccharine fluid, consisting of the inspissated juices or decoctions of certain vegetables, as the sap of the birch, sycamore, and the like.
Treacly (a.) Like, or composed of, treacle.
Trod (imp.) of Tread
Trodden (p. p.) of Tread
Trod () of Tread
Treading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tread
Tread (v. i.) To set the foot; to step.
Tread (v. i.) To walk or go; especially, to walk with a stately or a cautious step.
Tread (v. i.) To copulate; said of birds, esp. the males.
Tread (v. t.) To step or walk on.
Tread (v. t.) To beat or press with the feet; as, to tread a path; to tread land when too light; a well-trodden path.
Tread (v. t.) To go through or accomplish by walking, dancing, or the like.
Tread (v. t.) To crush under the foot; to trample in contempt or hatred; to subdue.
Tread (v. t.) To copulate with; to feather; to cover; -- said of the male bird.
Tread (n.) A step or stepping; pressure with the foot; a footstep; as, a nimble tread; a cautious tread.
Tread (n.) Manner or style of stepping; action; gait; as, the horse has a good tread.
Tread (n.) Way; track; path.
Tread (n.) The act of copulation in birds.
Tread (n.) The upper horizontal part of a step, on which the foot is placed.
Tread (n.) The top of the banquette, on which soldiers stand to fire over the parapet.
Tread (n.) The part of a wheel that bears upon the road or rail.
Tread (n.) The part of a rail upon which car wheels bear.
Tread (n.) The chalaza of a bird's egg; the treadle.
Tread (n.) A bruise or abrasion produced on the foot or ankle of a horse that interferes. See Interfere, 3.
Treadboard (n.) See Tread, n., 5.
Treader (n.) One who treads.
Treadfowl (n.) A cock.
Treadle (n.) The part of a foot lathe, or other machine, which is pressed or moved by the foot.
Treadle (n.) The chalaza of a bird's egg; the tread.
Treadmill (n.) A mill worked by persons treading upon steps on the periphery of a wide wheel having a horizontal axis. It is used principally as a means of prison discipline. Also, a mill worked by horses, dogs, etc., treading an endless belt.
Tread-softly (n.) Spurge nettle. See under Nettle.
Treadwheel (n.) A wheel turned by persons or animals, by treading, climbing, or pushing with the feet, upon its periphery or face. See Treadmill.
Treague (n.) A truce.
Treason (n.) The offense of attempting to overthrow the government of the state to which the offender owes allegiance, or of betraying the state into the hands of a foreign power; disloyalty; treachery.
Treason (n.) Loosely, the betrayal of any trust or confidence; treachery; perfidy.
Treasonable (a.) Pertaining to treason; consisting of treason; involving the crime of treason, or partaking of its guilt.
Treasonous (a.) Treasonable.
Treasure (n.) Wealth accumulated; especially, a stock, or store of money in reserve.
Treasure (n.) A great quantity of anything collected for future use; abundance; plenty.
Treasure (n.) That which is very much valued.
Treasured (imp. & p. p.) of Treasure
Treasuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Treasure
Treasure (v. t.) To collect and deposit, as money or other valuable things, for future use; to lay up; to hoard; usually with up; as, to treasure up gold.
Treasure-house (n.) A house or building where treasures and stores are kept.
Treasurer (n.) One who has the care of a treasure or treasure or treasury; an officer who receives the public money arising from taxes and duties, or other sources of revenue, takes charge of the same, and disburses it upon orders made by the proper authority; one who has charge of collected funds; as, the treasurer of a society or corporation.
Treasurership (n.) The office of treasurer.
Treasuress (n.) A woman who is a treasurer.
Treasure-trove (n.) Any money, bullion, or the like, found in the earth, or otherwise hidden, the owner of which is not known. In England such treasure belongs to the crown; whereas similar treasure found in the sea, or upon the surface of the land, belongs to the finder if no owner appears.
Treasuries (pl. ) of Treasury
Treasury (n.) A place or building in which stores of wealth are deposited; especially, a place where public revenues are deposited and kept, and where money is disbursed to defray the expenses of government; hence, also, the place of deposit and disbursement of any collected funds.
Treasury (n.) That department of a government which has charge of the finances.
Treasury (n.) A repository of abundance; a storehouse.
Treasury (n.) Hence, a book or work containing much valuable knowledge, wisdom, wit, or the like; a thesaurus; as, " Maunder's Treasury of Botany."
Treasury (n.) A treasure.
Treated (imp. & p. p.) of Treat
Treating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Treat
Treat (v. t.) To handle; to manage; to use; to bear one's self toward; as, to treat prisoners cruelly; to treat children kindly.
Treat (v. t.) To discourse on; to handle in a particular manner, in writing or speaking; as, to treat a subject diffusely.
Treat (v. t.) To entertain with food or drink, especially the latter, as a compliment, or as an expression of friendship or regard; as, to treat the whole company.
Treat (v. t.) To negotiate; to settle; to make terms for.
Treat (v. t.) To care for medicinally or surgically; to manage in the use of remedies or appliances; as, to treat a disease, a wound, or a patient.
Treat (v. t.) To subject to some action; to apply something to; as, to treat a substance with sulphuric acid.
Treat (v. t.) To entreat; to beseech.
Treat (v. i.) To discourse; to handle a subject in writing or speaking; to make discussion; -- usually with of; as, Cicero treats of old age and of duties.
Treat (v. i.) To negotiate; to come to terms of accommodation; -- often followed by with; as, envoys were appointed to treat with France.
Treat (v. i.) To give a gratuitous entertainment, esp. of food or drink, as a compliment.
Treat (n.) A parley; a conference.
Treat (n.) An entertainment given as an expression of regard.
Treat (n.) That which affords entertainment; a gratification; a satisfaction; as, the concert was a rich treat.
Treatable (a.) Manageable; tractable; hence, moderate; not violent.
Treatably (adv.) In a treatable manner.
Treater (n.) One who treats; one who handles, or discourses on, a subject; also, one who entertains.
Treatise (n.) A written composition on a particular subject, in which its principles are discussed or explained; a tract.
Treatise (n.) Story; discourse.
Treatiser (n.) One who writes a treatise.
Treatment (n.) The act or manner of treating; management; manipulation; handling; usage; as, unkind treatment; medical treatment.
Treatment (n.) Entertainment; treat.
Treature (n.) Treatment.
Treaties (pl. ) of Treaty
Treaty (n.) The act of treating for the adjustment of differences, as for forming an agreement; negotiation.
Treaty (n.) An agreement so made; specifically, an agreement, league, or contract between two or more nations or sovereigns, formally signed by commissioners properly authorized, and solemnly ratified by the several sovereigns, or the supreme power of each state; an agreement between two or more independent states; as, a treaty of peace; a treaty of alliance.
Treaty (n.) A proposal tending to an agreement.
Treaty (n.) A treatise; a tract.
Treble (a.) Threefold; triple.
Treble (a.) Acute; sharp; as, a treble sound.
Treble (a.) Playing or singing the highest part or most acute sounds; playing or singing the treble; as, a treble violin or voice.
Treble (adv.) Trebly; triply.
Treble (n.) The highest of the four principal parts in music; the part usually sung by boys or women; soprano.
Trebled (imp. & p. p.) of Treble
Trebling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Treble
Treble (v. t.) To make thrice as much; to make threefold.
Treble (v. t.) To utter in a treble key; to whine.
Treble (v. i.) To become threefold.
Trebleness (n.) The quality or state of being treble; as, the trebleness of tones.
Treblet (n.) Same as Triblet.
Trebly (adv.) In a treble manner; with a threefold number or quantity; triply.
Trebuchet (n.) Alt. of Trebucket
Trebucket (n.) A cucking stool; a tumbrel.
Trebucket (n.) A military engine used in the Middle Ages for throwing stones, etc. It acted by means of a great weight fastened to the short arm of a lever, which, being let fall, raised the end of the long arm with great velocity, hurling stones with much force.
Trebucket (n.) A kind of balance for weighing.
Trechometer (n.) An odometer for vehicles.
Treckschuyt (n.) A covered boat for goods and passengers, used on the Dutch and Flemish canals.
Treddle (n.) See Treadle.
Treddle (n.) A prostitute; a strumpet.
Treddle (n.) The dung of sheep or hares.
Tredille (n.) A game at cards for three.
Tree (n.) Any perennial woody plant of considerable size (usually over twenty feet high) and growing with a single trunk.
Tree (n.) Something constructed in the form of, or considered as resembling, a tree, consisting of a stem, or stock, and branches; as, a genealogical tree.
Tree (n.) A piece of timber, or something commonly made of timber; -- used in composition, as in axletree, boottree, chesstree, crosstree, whiffletree, and the like.
Tree (n.) A cross or gallows; as Tyburn tree.
Tree (n.) Wood; timber.
Tree (n.) A mass of crystals, aggregated in arborescent forms, obtained by precipitation of a metal from solution. See Lead tree, under Lead.
Treed (imp. & p. p.) of Tree
Treeing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tree
Tree (v. t.) To drive to a tree; to cause to ascend a tree; as, a dog trees a squirrel.
Tree (v. t.) To place upon a tree; to fit with a tree; to stretch upon a tree; as, to tree a boot. See Tree, n., 3.
Treebeard (n.) A pendulous branching lichen (Usnea barbata); -- so called from its resemblance to hair.
Treefuls (pl. ) of Treeful
Treeful (n.) The quantity or number which fills a tree.
Treeless (a.) Destitute of trees.
Treen (a.) Made of wood; wooden.
Treen (a.) Relating to, or drawn from, trees.
Treen () pl. of Tree.
Treenail (n.) A long wooden pin used in fastening the planks of a vessel to the timbers or to each other.
Trefle (n.) A species of time; -- so called from its resemblance in form to a trefoil.
Trefle (a.) Having a three-lobed extremity or extremities, as a cross; also, more rarely, ornamented with trefoils projecting from the edges, as a bearing.
Trefoil (n.) Any plant of the genus Trifolium, which includes the white clover, red clover, etc.; -- less properly, applied also to the nonesuch, or black medic. See Clover, and Medic.
Trefoil (n.) An ornamental foliation consisting of three divisions, or foils.
Trefoil (n.) A charge representing the clover leaf.
Trefoiled (a.) Same as Trefle.
Treget (n.) Guile; trickery.
Tregetour (n.) A juggler who produces illusions by the use of elaborate machinery.
Tregetry (n.) Trickery; also, a trick.
Trehala (n.) An amorphous variety of manna obtained from the nests and cocoons of a Syrian coleopterous insect (Larinus maculatus, L. nidificans, etc.) which feeds on the foliage of a variety of thistle. It is used as an article of food, and is called also nest sugar.
Trehalose (n.) Mycose; -- so called because sometimes obtained from trehala.
Treillage (n.) Latticework for supporting vines, etc.; an espalier; a trellis.
Trellis (n.) A structure or frame of crossbarred work, or latticework, used for various purposes, as for screens or for supporting plants.
Trellised (a.) Having a trellis or trellises.
Tremando (a.) Trembling; -- used as a direction to perform a passage with a general shaking of the whole chord.
Trematode (n.) One of the Trematodea. Also used adjectively.
Trematodea (n. pl.) An extensive order of parasitic worms. They are found in the internal cavities of animals belonging to all classes. Many species are found, also, on the gills and skin of fishes. A few species are parasitic on man, and some, of which the fluke is the most important, are injurious parasites of domestic animals. The trematodes usually have a flattened body covered with a chitinous skin, and are furnished with two or more suckers for adhesion. Most of the species are hermaphrodite. Called also Trematoda, and Trematoidea. See Fluke, Tristoma, and Cercaria.
Trematoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Trematodea. See Illustration in Appendix.
Trembled (imp. & p. p.) of Tremble
Trembling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tremble
Tremble (v. i.) To shake involuntarily, as with fear, cold, or weakness; to quake; to quiver; to shiver; to shudder; -- said of a person or an animal.
Tremble (v. i.) To totter; to shake; -- said of a thing.
Tremble (v. i.) To quaver or shake, as sound; to be tremulous; as the voice trembles.
Tremble (n.) An involuntary shaking or quivering.
Trembler (n.) One who trembles.
Trembling (a.) Shaking; tottering; quivering.
Tremella (n.) A genus of gelatinous fungi found in moist grounds.
Tremendous (a.) Fitted to excite fear or terror; such as may astonish or terrify by its magnitude, force, or violence; terrible; dreadful; as, a tremendous wind; a tremendous shower; a tremendous shock or fall.
Tremex (n.) A genus of large hymenopterous insects allied to the sawflies. The female lays her eggs in holes which she bores in the trunks of trees with her large and long ovipositor, and the larva bores in the wood. See Illust. of Horntail.
Tremolando (a.) Same as Tremando.
Tremolite (n.) A white variety of amphibole, or hornblende, occurring in long, bladelike crystals, and coarsely fibrous masses.
Tremolo (n.) The rapid reiteration of tones without any apparent cessation, so as to produce a tremulous effect.
Tremolo (n.) A certain contrivance in an organ, which causes the notes to sound with rapid pulses or beats, producing a tremulous effect; -- called also tremolant, and tremulant.
Tremor (v.) A trembling; a shivering or shaking; a quivering or vibratory motion; as, the tremor of a person who is weak, infirm, or old.
Tremulant (a.) Alt. of Tremulent
Tremulent (a.) Tremulous; trembling; shaking.
Tremulous (a.) Shaking; shivering; quivering; as, a tremulous limb; a tremulous motion of the hand or the lips; the tremulous leaf of the poplar.
Tremulous (a.) Affected with fear or timidity; trembling.
Tren (n.) A fish spear.
Trenail (n.) Same as Treenail.
Trenched (imp. & p. p.) of Trench
Trenching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trench
Trench (v. t.) To cut; to form or shape by cutting; to make by incision, hewing, or the like.
Trench (v. t.) To fortify by cutting a ditch, and raising a rampart or breastwork with the earth thrown out of the ditch; to intrench.
Trench (v. t.) To cut furrows or ditches in; as, to trench land for the purpose of draining it.
Trench (v. t.) To dig or cultivate very deeply, usually by digging parallel contiguous trenches in succession, filling each from the next; as, to trench a garden for certain crops.
Trench (v. i.) To encroach; to intrench.
Trench (v. i.) To have direction; to aim or tend.
Trench (v. t.) A long, narrow cut in the earth; a ditch; as, a trench for draining land.
Trench (v. t.) An alley; a narrow path or walk cut through woods, shrubbery, or the like.
Trench (v. t.) An excavation made during a siege, for the purpose of covering the troops as they advance toward the besieged place. The term includes the parallels and the approaches.
Trenchand (a.) Trenchant.
Trenchant (v. t.) Fitted to trench or cut; gutting; sharp.
Trenchant (v. t.) Fig.: Keen; biting; severe; as, trenchant wit.
Trenchantly (adv.) In a trenchant, or sharp, manner; sharply; severely.
Trencher (v. t.) One who trenches; esp., one who cuts or digs ditches.
Trencher (v. t.) A large wooden plate or platter, as for table use.
Trencher (v. t.) The table; hence, the pleasures of the table; food.
Trencher-men (pl. ) of Trencher-man
Trencher-man (n.) A feeder; a great eater; a gormandizer.
Trencher-man (n.) A cook.
Trencher-man (n.) A table companion; a trencher mate.
Trenchmore (n.) A kind of lively dance of a rude, boisterous character. Also, music in triple time appropriate to the dance.
Trenchmore (v. i.) To dance the trenchmore.
Trench-plow (v. t.) Alt. of Trench-plough
Trench-plough (v. t.) To plow with deep furrows, for the purpose of loosening the land to a greater depth than usual.
Trended (imp. & p. p.) of Trend
Trending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trend
Trend (v. i.) To have a particular direction; to run; to stretch; to tend; as, the shore of the sea trends to the southwest.
Trend (v. t.) To cause to turn; to bend.
Trend (n.) Inclination in a particular direction; tendency; general direction; as, the trend of a coast.
Trend (v. t.) To cleanse, as wool.
Trend (n.) Clean wool.
Trender (n.) One whose business is to free wool from its filth.
Trendle (v. i.) A wheel, spindle, or the like; a trundle.
Trental (n.) An office and mass for the dead on the thirtieth day after death or burial.
Trental (n.) Hence, a dirge; an elegy.
Trenton period () A subdivision in the lower Silurian system of America; -- so named from Trenton Falls, in New York. The rocks are mostly limestones, and the period is divided into the Trenton, Utica, and Cincinnati epochs. See the Chart of Geology.
Trepan (n.) A crown-saw or cylindrical saw for perforating the skull, turned, when used, like a bit or gimlet. See Trephine.
Trepan (n.) A kind of broad chisel for sinking shafts.
Trepanned (imp. & p. p.) of Trepan
Trepanning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trepan
Trepan (v. t. & i.) To perforate (the skull) with a trepan, so as to remove a portion of the bone, and thus relieve the brain from pressure or irritation; to perform an operation with the trepan.
Trepan (n.) A snare; a trapan.
Trepan (n.) a deceiver; a cheat.
Trepan (v. t.) To insnare; to trap; to trapan.
Trepang (n.) Any one of several species of large holothurians, some of which are dried and extensively used as food in China; -- called also beche de mer, sea cucumber, and sea slug.
Trepanize (v. t.) To trepan.
Trepanner (n.) One who trepans.
Trepeget (n.) A trebuchet.
Trephine (n.) An instrument for trepanning, being an improvement on the trepan. It is a circular or cylindrical saw, with a handle like that of a gimlet, and a little sharp perforator called the center pin.
Trephined (imp. & p. p.) of Trephine
Trephining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trephine
Trephine (v. t.) To perforate with a trephine; to trepan.
Trepid (a.) Trembling; quaking.
Trepidation (n.) An involuntary trembling, sometimes an effect of paralysis, but usually caused by terror or fear; quaking; quivering.
Trepidation (n.) Hence, a state of terror or alarm; fear; confusion; fright; as, the men were in great trepidation.
Trepidation (n.) A libration of the starry sphere in the Ptolemaic system; a motion ascribed to the firmament, to account for certain small changes in the position of the ecliptic and of the stars.
Trepidity (n.) Trepidation.
Tresayle (n.) A grandfather's grandfather.
Tresor (n.) Treasure.
Trespassed (imp. & p. p.) of Trespass
Trespassing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trespass
Trespass (v. i.) To pass beyond a limit or boundary; hence, to depart; to go.
Trespass (v. i.) To commit a trespass; esp., to enter unlawfully upon the land of another.
Trespass (v. i.) To go too far; to put any one to inconvenience by demand or importunity; to intrude; as, to trespass upon the time or patience of another.
Trespass (v. i.) To commit any offense, or to do any act that injures or annoys another; to violate any rule of rectitude, to the injury of another; hence, in a moral sense, to transgress voluntarily any divine law or command; to violate any known rule of duty; to sin; -- often followed by against.
Trespass (v.) Any injury or offence done to another.
Trespass (v.) Any voluntary transgression of the moral law; any violation of a known rule of duty; sin.
Trespass (v.) An unlawful act committed with force and violence (vi et armis) on the person, property, or relative rights of another.
Trespass (v.) An action for injuries accompanied with force.
Trespasser (n.) One who commits a trespass
Trespasser (n.) One who enters upon another's land, or violates his rights.
Trespasser (n.) A transgressor of the moral law; an offender; a sinner.
Tress (n.) A braid, knot, or curl, of hair; a ringlet.
Tress (n.) Fig.: A knot or festoon, as of flowers.
Tressed (a.) Having tresses.
Tressed (a.) Formed into ringlets or braided; braided; curled.
Tressel (n.) A trestle.
Tressful (a.) Tressy.
Tressure (n.) A kind of border similar to the orle, but of only half the breadth of the latter.
Tressured (a.) Provided or bound with a tressure; arranged in the form of a tressure.
Tressy (a.) Abounding in tresses.
Trestle (n.) A movable frame or support for anything, as scaffolding, consisting of three or four legs secured to a top piece, and forming a sort of stool or horse, used by carpenters, masons, and other workmen; also, a kind of framework of strong posts or piles, and crossbeams, for supporting a bridge, the track of a railway, or the like.
Trestle (n.) The frame of a table.
Trestletree (n.) One of two strong bars of timber, fixed horizontally on the opposite sides of the masthead, to support the crosstrees and the frame of the top; -- generally used in the plural.
Trestlework (n.) A viaduct, pier, scaffold, or the like, resting on trestles connected together.
Tres-tyne (n.) In the antler of a stag, the third tyne above the base. This tyne appears in the third year. In those deer in which the brow tyne does not divide, the tres-tyne is the second tyne above the base. See Illust. under Rucervine, and under Rusine.
Tret () 3d pers. sing. pres. of Tread, for treadeth.
Tret (n.) An allowance to purchasers, for waste or refuse matter, of four pounds on every 104 pounds of suttle weight, or weight after the tare deducted.
Tretable (a.) Tractable; moderate.
Trething (n.) A tax; an impost.
Tretis (n.) Alt. of Tretys
Tretys (n.) A treatise; also, a treaty.
Tretis (a.) Alt. of Tretys
Tretys (a.) Long and well-proportioned; nicely made; pretty.
Trevat (n.) A weaver's cutting instrument; for severing the loops of the pile threads of velvet.
Trevet (n.) A stool or other thing supported by three legs; a trivet.
Trew (a.) Alt. of Trewe
Trewe (a.) True.
Trews (n. pl.) Trowsers; especially, those of the Scotch Highlanders.
Trewth (n.) Truth.
Trey (n.) Three, at cards, dice, or dominoes; a card, die, or domino of three spots or pips.
Tri- () A prefix meaning three, thrice, threefold; as in tricolored, tridentate.
Tri- () A prefix (also used adjectively) denoting three proportional or combining part, or the third degree of that to the name of which it is prefixed; as in trisulphide, trioxide, trichloride.
Triable (a.) Fit or possible to be tried; liable to be subjected to trial or test.
Triable (a.) Liable to undergo a judicial examination; properly coming under the cognizance of a court; as, a cause may be triable before one court which is not triable in another.
Triableness (n.) Quality or state of being triable.
Triacid (a.) Capable of neutralizing three molecules of a monobasic acid or the equivalent; having three hydrogen atoms which may be acid radicals; -- said of certain bases; thus, glycerin is a triacid base.
Triacle (n.) See Treacle.
Triacontahedral (a.) Having thirty sides.
Triaconter (n.) A vessel with thirty banks of oars, or, as some say, thirty ranks of rowers.
Triad (n.) A union of three; three objects treated as one; a ternary; a trinity; as, a triad of deities.
Triad (n.) A chord of three notes.
Triad (n.) The common chord, consisting of a tone with its third and fifth, with or without the octave.
Triad (n.) An element or radical whose valence is three.
Triadelphous (a.) Having stamens joined by filaments into three bundles. See Illust. under Adelphous.
Triadic (a.) Having the characteristics of a triad; as, boron is triadic.
Triakisoctahedron (n.) A trigonal trisoctahedron.
Trial (n.) The act of trying or testing in any manner.
Trial (n.) Any effort or exertion of strength for the purpose of ascertaining what can be done or effected.
Trial (n.) The act of testing by experience; proof; test.
Trial (n.) Examination by a test; experiment, as in chemistry, metallurgy, etc.
Trial (n.) The state of being tried or tempted; exposure to suffering that tests strength, patience, faith, or the like; affliction or temptation that exercises and proves the graces or virtues of men.
Trial (n.) That which tries or afflicts; that which harasses; that which tries the character or principles; that which tempts to evil; as, his child's conduct was a sore trial.
Trial (n.) The formal examination of the matter in issue in a cause before a competent tribunal; the mode of determining a question of fact in a court of law; the examination, in legal form, of the facts in issue in a cause pending before a competent tribunal, for the purpose of determining such issue.
Triality (n.) Three united; state of being three.
Trialogue (n.) A discourse or colloquy by three persons.
Triamide (n.) An amide containing three amido groups.
Triamine (n.) An amine containing three amido groups.
Triander (n.) Any one of the Triandria.
Triandria (n. pl.) A Linnaean class of plants having three distinct and equal stamens.
Triandrian (a.) Alt. of Triandrous
Triandrous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Triandria; having three distinct and equal stamens in the same flower.
Triangle (n.) A figure bounded by three lines, and containing three angles.
Triangle (n.) An instrument of percussion, usually made of a rod of steel, bent into the form of a triangle, open at one angle, and sounded by being struck with a small metallic rod.
Triangle (n.) A draughtsman's square in the form of a right-angled triangle.
Triangle (n.) A kind of frame formed of three poles stuck in the ground and united at the top, to which soldiers were bound when undergoing corporal punishment, -- now disused.
Triangle (n.) A small constellation situated between Aries and Andromeda.
Triangle (n.) A small constellation near the South Pole, containing three bright stars.
Triangled (a.) Having three angles; triangular.
Triangular (a.) Having three angles; having the form of a triangle.
Triangular (a.) Oblong or elongated, and having three lateral angles; as, a triangular seed, leaf, or stem.
Triangulares (n. pl.) The triangular, or maioid, crabs. See Illust. under Maioid, and Illust. of Spider crab, under Spider.
Triangularity (n.) The quality or state of being triangular.
Triangularly (adv.) In a triangular manner; in the form of a triangle.
Triangulated (imp. & p. p.) of Triangulate
Triangulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Triangulate
Triangulate (v. t.) To divide into triangles; specifically, to survey by means of a series of triangles properly laid down and measured.
Triangulate (v. t.) To make triangular, or three-cornered.
Triangulation (n.) The series or network of triangles into which the face of a country, or any portion of it, is divided in a trigonometrical survey; the operation of measuring the elements necessary to determine the triangles into which the country to be surveyed is supposed to be divided, and thus to fix the positions and distances of the several points connected by them.
Triarchies (pl. ) of Triarchy
Triarchy (n.) Government by three persons; a triumvirate; also, a country under three rulers.
Triarian (a.) Occupying the third post or rank.
Triarticulate (a.) Having three joints.
Trias (n.) The formation situated between the Permian and Lias, and so named by the Germans, because consisting of three series of strata, which are called in German the Bunter sandstein, Muschelkalk, and Keuper.
Triassic (a.) Of the age of, or pertaining to, the Trias.
Triassic (n.) The Triassic formation.
Triatic (a.) A term used in the phrase triatic stay. See under Stay.
Triatomic (a.) Having three atoms; -- said of certain elements or radicals.
Triatomic (a.) Having a valence of three; trivalent; sometimes, in a specific sense, having three hydroxyl groups, whether acid or basic; thus, glycerin, glyceric acid, and tartronic acid are each triatomic.
Tribal (a.) Of or pertaining to a tribe or tribes; as, a tribal scepter.
Tribalism (n.) The state of existing in tribes; also, tribal feeling; tribal prejudice or exclusiveness; tribal peculiarities or characteristics.
Tribasic (a.) Capable of neutralizing three molecules of a monacid base, or their equivalent; having three hydrogen atoms capable of replacement by basic elements on radicals; -- said of certain acids; thus, citric acid is a tribasic acid.
Tribble (n.) A frame on which paper is dried.
Tribe (n.) A family, race, or series of generations, descending from the same progenitor, and kept distinct, as in the case of the twelve tribes of Israel, descended from the twelve sons of Jacob.
Tribe (n.) A number of species or genera having certain structural characteristics in common; as, a tribe of plants; a tribe of animals.
Tribe (n.) A nation of savages or uncivilized people; a body of rude people united under one leader or government; as, the tribes of the Six Nations; the Seneca tribe.
Tribe (n.) A division, class, or distinct portion of a people, from whatever cause that distinction may have originated; as, the city of Athens was divided into ten tribes.
Tribe (n.) A family of animals descended from some particular female progenitor, through the female line; as, the Duchess tribe of shorthorns.
Tribe (v. t.) To distribute into tribes or classes.
Triblet (n.) Alt. of Tribolet
Tribolet (n.) A goldsmith's tool used in making rings.
Tribolet (n.) A steel cylinder round which metal is drawn in the process of forming tubes.
Tribolet (n.) A tapering mandrel.
Tribometer (n.) An instrument to ascertain the degree of friction in rubbing surfaces.
Tribrach (n.) A poetic foot of three short syllables, as, meblius.
Tribracteate (a.) Having three bracts.
Tribual (a.) Alt. of Tribular
Tribular (a.) Of or relating to a tribe; tribal; as, a tribual characteristic; tribular worship.
Tribulation (n.) That which occasions distress, trouble, or vexation; severe affliction.
Tribunal (n.) The seat of a judge; the bench on which a judge and his associates sit for administering justice.
Tribunal (n.) Hence, a court or forum; as, the House of Lords, in England, is the highest tribunal in the kingdom.
Tribunary (a.) Of or pertaining to tribunes; as, tribunary powers or authority.
Tribunate (n.) The state or office of a tribune; tribuneship.
Tribune (n.) An officer or magistrate chosen by the people, to protect them from the oppression of the patricians, or nobles, and to defend their liberties against any attempts that might be made upon them by the senate and consuls.
Tribune (n.) Anciently, a bench or elevated place, from which speeches were delivered; in France, a kind of pulpit in the hall of the legislative assembly, where a member stands while making an address; any place occupied by a public orator.
Tribuneship (n.) The office or power of a tribune.
Tribunician (a.) Alt. of Tribunitian
Tribunitial (a.) Alt. of Tribunitian
Tribunitian (a.) Of or pertaining to tribunes; befitting a tribune; as, tribunitial power or authority.
Tribunitious (a.) Tribunician; tribunitial.
Trubutarily (adv.) In a tributary manner.
Tributariness (n.) The quality or state of being tributary.
Tributary (a.) Paying tribute to another, either from compulsion, as an acknowledgment of submission, or to secure protection, or for the purpose of purchasing peace.
Tributary (a.) Hence, subject; subordinate; inferior.
Tributary (a.) Paid in tribute.
Tributary (a.) Yielding supplies of any kind; serving to form or make up, a greater object of the same kind, as a part, branch, etc.; contributing; as, the Ohio has many tributary streams, and is itself tributary to the Mississippi.
Tributaries (pl. ) of Tributary
Tributary (n.) A ruler or state that pays tribute, or a stated sum, to a conquering power, for the purpose of securing peace and protection, or as an acknowledgment of submission, or for the purchase of security.
Tributary (n.) A stream or river flowing into a larger river or into a lake; an affluent.
Tribute (n.) An annual or stated sum of money or other valuable thing, paid by one ruler or nation to another, either as an acknowledgment of submission, or as the price of peace and protection, or by virtue of some treaty; as, the Romans made their conquered countries pay tribute.
Tribute (n.) A personal contribution, as of money, praise, service, etc., made in token of services rendered, or as that which is due or deserved; as, a tribute of affection.
Tribute (n.) A certain proportion of the ore raised, or of its value, given to the miner as his recompense.
Tributed (imp. & p. p.) of Tribute
Tributing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tribute
Tribute (v. i.) To pay as tribute.
Tributer (n.) One who works for a certain portion of the ore, or its value.
Tricae (pl. ) of Trica
Trica (n.) An apothecium in certain lichens, having a spherical surface marked with spiral or concentric ridges and furrows.
Tricarballylic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex tribasic organic acid, C3H5.(CO2H)3 occurring naturally in unripe beet roots, and produced artificially from glycerin as a white crystalline substance.
Tricarbimide (n.) See under Cyanuric.
Trice (v. t.) To pull; to haul; to drag; to pull away.
Trice (v. t.) To haul and tie up by means of a rope.
Trice (n.) A very short time; an instant; a moment; -- now used only in the phrase in a trice.
Tricennarious (a.) Of or pertaining to thirty years; tricennial.
Tricennial (a.) Of or pertaining to thirty years; consisting of thirty years; occurring once in every thirty years.
Tricentenary (a.) Including, or relating to, the interval of three hundred years; tercentenary.
Tricentenary (n.) A period of three centuries, or three hundred years, also, the three-hundredth anniversary of any event; a tercentenary.
Triceps (n.) A muscle having three heads; specif., the great extensor of the forearm, arising by three heads and inserted into the olecranon at the elbow.
Trichiasis (n.) A disease of the eye, in which the eyelashes, being turned in upon the eyeball, produce constant irritation by the motion of the lids.
Trichinae (pl. ) of Trichina
Trichina (n.) A small, slender nematoid worm (Trichina spiralis) which, in the larval state, is parasitic, often in immense numbers, in the voluntary muscles of man, the hog, and many other animals. When insufficiently cooked meat containing the larvae is swallowed by man, they are liberated and rapidly become adult, pair, and the ovoviviparous females produce in a short time large numbers of young which find their way into the muscles, either directly, or indirectly by means of the blood. Their presence in the muscles and the intestines in large numbers produces trichinosis.
Trichiniasis (n.) Trichinosis.
Trichinize (v. t.) To render trichinous; to affect with trichinae; -- chiefly used in the past participle; as, trichinized pork.
Trichinoscope (n.) An apparatus for the detection of trichinae in the flesh of animals, as of swine.
Trichinosis (n.) The disease produced by the presence of trichinae in the muscles and intestinal track. It is marked by fever, muscular pains, and symptoms resembling those of typhoid fever, and is frequently fatal.
Trichinous (a.) Of or pertaining to trichinae or trichinosis; affected with, or containing, trichinae; as, trichinous meat.
Trichite (n.) A kind of crystallite resembling a bunch of hairs, common in obsidian. See Illust. of Crystallite.
Trichite (n.) A delicate, hairlike siliceous spicule, found in certain sponges.
Trichiuriform (a.) Like or pertaining to the genus Trichiurus or family Trichiuridae, comprising the scabbard fishes and hairtails.
Trichiuroid (a.) Of, like, or pertaining to, Trichiurus.
Trichiurus (n.) A genus of fishes comprising the hairtails. See Hairtail.
Trichloride (n.) A chloride having three atoms of chlorine in the molecule.
Trichobranchia (n.) The gill of a crustacean in which the branchial filaments are slender and cylindrical, as in the crawfishes.
Trichocyst (n.) A lasso cell.
Trichogyne (n.) The slender, hairlike cell which receives the fertilizing particles, or antherozoids, in red seaweeds.
Trichomanes (n.) Any fern of the genus Trichomanes. The fronds are very delicate and often translucent, and the sporangia are borne on threadlike receptacles rising from the middle of cup-shaped marginal involucres. Several species are common in conservatories; two are native in the United States.
Trichomatose (a.) Affected with a disease which causes agglutination and matting together; -- said of the hair when affected with plica. See Plica, 1.
Trichome (n.) A hair on the surface of leaf or stem, or any modification of a hair, as a minute scale, or star, or gland. The sporangia of ferns are believed to be of the nature of trichomes.
Trichophore (n.) The special cell in red algae which produces or bears a trichogyne. See Illust. of Trichogyne.
Trichophore (n.) One of the saclike organs from which the setae of annelids arise.
Trichopter (n.) One of the Trichoptera.
Trichoptera (n. pl.) A suborder of Neuroptera usually having the wings covered with minute hairs. It comprises the caddice flies, and is considered by some to be a distinct order.
Trichopteran () One of the Trichoptera.
Trichopterous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or characterizing, the Trichoptera.
Trichord (n.) An instrument, as a lyre or harp, having three strings.
Trichoscolices (n. pl.) An extensive group of wormlike animals characterized by being more or less covered with cilia.
Trichotomous (a.) Divided into three parts, or into threes; three-forked; as, a trichotomous stem.
Trichotomy (n.) Division into three parts.
Trichroic (a.) Exhibiting trichroism; pleochroic; pleochroism.
Trichroism (n.) The quality possessed by some crystals of presenting different colors in three different directions.
Trichromatic (a.) Having or existing in three different phases of color; having three distinct color varieties; -- said of certain birds and insects.
Trichromatism (n.) The quality, state, or phenomenon of being trichromatic.
Trichromic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or consisting of, three colors or color sensations.
Trichromic (a.) Containing three atoms of chromium.
Tricipital (a.) Having three heads, or three origins; as, a tricipital muscle.
Trick (a.) An artifice or stratagem; a cunning contrivance; a sly procedure, usually with a dishonest intent; as, a trick in trade.
Trick (a.) A sly, dexterous, or ingenious procedure fitted to puzzle or amuse; as, a bear's tricks; a juggler's tricks.
Trick (a.) Mischievous or annoying behavior; a prank; as, the tricks of boys.
Trick (a.) A particular habit or manner; a peculiarity; a trait; as, a trick of drumming with the fingers; a trick of frowning.
Trick (a.) A knot, braid, or plait of hair.
Trick (a.) The whole number of cards played in one round, and consisting of as many cards as there are players.
Trick (a.) A turn; specifically, the spell of a sailor at the helm, -- usually two hours.
Trick (a.) A toy; a trifle; a plaything.
Tricked (imp. & p. p.) of Trick
Tricking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trick
Trick (v. t.) To deceive by cunning or artifice; to impose on; to defraud; to cheat; as, to trick another in the sale of a horse.
Trick (v. t.) To dress; to decorate; to set off; to adorn fantastically; -- often followed by up, off, or out.
Trick (v. t.) To draw in outline, as with a pen; to delineate or distinguish without color, as arms, etc., in heraldry.
Tricker (n.) One who tricks; a trickster.
Tricker (n.) A trigger.
Trickery (n.) The art of dressing up; artifice; stratagem; fraud; imposture.
Trickiness (n.) The quality of being tricky.
Tricking (a.) Given to tricks; tricky.
Tricking (n.) Dress; ornament.
Trickish (a.) Given to tricks; artful in making bargains; given to deception and cheating; knavish.
Trickled (imp. & p. p.) of Trickle
Trickling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trickle
Trickle (v. t.) To flow in a small, gentle stream; to run in drops.
Trickment (n.) Decoration.
Tricksiness (n.) The quality or state of being tricksy; trickiness.
Trickster (n.) One who tricks; a deceiver; a tricker; a cheat.
Tricksy (a.) Exhibiting artfulness; trickish.
Tricktrack (n.) An old game resembling backgammon.
Tricky (a.) Given to tricks; practicing deception; trickish; knavish.
Triclinate (a.) Triclinic.
Tricliniary (a.) Of or pertaining to a triclinium, or to the ancient mode of reclining at table.
Triclinic (a.) Having, or characterized by, three unequal axes intersecting at oblique angles. See the Note under crystallization.
Triclinia (pl. ) of Triclinium
Triclinium (n.) A couch for reclining at meals, extending round three sides of a table, and usually in three parts.
Triclinium (n.) A dining room furnished with such a triple couch.
Tricoccous (a.) Having three cocci, or roundish carpels.
Tricolor (n.) The national French banner, of three colors, blue, white, and red, adopted at the first revolution.
Tricolor (n.) Hence, any three-colored flag.
Tricolored (a.) Having three colors.
Tricornigerous (a.) Having three horns.
Tricorporal (a.) Alt. of Tricorporate
Tricorporate (a.) Represented with three bodies conjoined to one head, as a lion.
Tricostate (a.) Three-ribbed; having three ribs from the base.
Tricot (n.) A fabric of woolen, silk, or cotton knitted, or women to resemble knitted work.
Tricrotic (a.) Of or pertaining to tricrotism; characterized by tricrotism.
Tricrotism (n.) That condition of the arterial pulse in which there is a triple beat. The pulse curve obtained in the sphygmographic tracing characteristic of tricrotism shows two secondary crests in addition to the primary.
Tricrotous (a.) Tricrotic.
Tricurvate (a.) Curved in three directions; as, a tricurvate spicule (see Illust. of Spicule).
Tricuspid (a.) Having three cusps, or points; tricuspidate; as, a tricuspid molar.
Tricuspid (a.) Of or pertaining to the tricuspid valves; as, tricuspid obstruction.
Tricuspidate (a.) Three-pointed; ending in three points; as, a tricuspidate leaf.
Tricycle (n.) A three-wheeled velocipede. See Illust. under Velocipede. Cf. Bicycle.
Tridacna (n.) A genus of very large marine bivalve shells found on the coral reefs of the Indian and Pacific Oceans. One species (T. gigas) often weighs four or five hundred pounds, and is sometimes used for baptismal fonts. Called also paw shell, and fountain shell.
Tridactyl (a.) Alt. of Tridactyle
Tridactyle (a.) Having three fingers or toes, or composed of three movable parts attached to a common base.
Tridactylous (a.) Tridactyl.
Triddler (n.) The jacksnipe.
Tride (a.) Short and ready; fleet; as, a tride pace; -- a term used by sportsmen.
Tridecane (n.) A hydrocarbon, C13H28, of the methane series, which is a probable ingredient both of crude petroleum and of kerosene, and is produced artificially as a light colorless liquid.
Tridecatoic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, that acid of the fatty acids heterologous with tridecane. It is a white crystalline substance.
Tridecatylene (n.) A hydrocarbon, C13H26, of the ethylene series, corresponding to tridecane, and obtained from Burmah petroleum as a light colorless liquid; -- called also tridecylene, and tridecene.
Trident (n.) A kind of scepter or spear with three prongs, -- the common attribute of Neptune.
Trident (n.) A three-pronged spear or goad, used for urging horses; also, the weapon used by one class of gladiators.
Trident (n.) A three-pronged fish spear.
Trident (n.) A curve of third order, having three infinite branches in one direction and a fourth infinite branch in the opposite direction.
Trident (a.) Having three teeth or prongs; tridentate.
Tridentate (a.) Alt. of Tridentated
Tridentated (a.) Having three teeth; three-toothed.
Tridented (a.) Having three prongs; trident; tridentate; as, a tridented mace.
Tridentiferous (a.) Bearing a trident.
Tridentine (a.) Of or pertaining to Trent, or the general church council held in that city.
Tridiapason (n.) A triple octave, or twenty-second.
Tridimensional (a.) Having three dimensions; extended in three different directions.
Triding (n.) A riding. See Trithing.
Triduan (a.) Lasting three lays; also, happening every third day.
Tridymite (n.) Pure silica, like quartz, but crystallizing in hexagonal tables. It is found in trachyte and similar rocks.
Tried () imp. & p. p. of Try.
Tried (adj.) Proved; tested; faithful; trustworthy; as, a tried friend.
Triedral (a.) See Trihedral.
Triennial (a.) Continuing three years; as, triennial parliaments; a triennial reign.
Triennial (a.) Happening, coming about, or appearing once in every three years; as, triennial elections; a triennial catalogue; a triennial visitation.
Triennial (n.) Something which takes place or appears once in three years.
Triennially (adv.) Once in three years.
Triens (n.) A Roman copper coin, equal to one third of the as. See 3d As, 2.
Trier (n.) One who tries; one who makes experiments; one who examines anything by a test or standard.
Trier (n.) One who tries judicially.
Trier (n.) A person appointed according to law to try challenges of jurors; a trior.
Trier (n.) That which tries or approves; a test.
Trierarch (n.) The commander of a trireme.
Trierarch (n.) At Athens, one who (singly, or jointly with other citizens) had to fit out a trireme for the public service.
Trierarchises (pl. ) of Trierarchy
Trierarchy (n.) The office duty of a trierarch.
Trieterical (a.) Kept or occurring once in three years; triennial.
Trieterics (n. pl.) Festival games celebrated once in three years.
Triethylamine (n.) A tertiary amine analogous to trimethylamine.
Trifacial (a.) See Trigeminal.
Trifallowed (imp. & p. p.) of Trifallow
Trifallowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trifallow
Trifallow (v. t.) To plow the third time before sowing, as land.
Trifarious (a.) Facing three ways; arranged in three vertical ranks, as the leaves of veratrum.
Trifasciated (a.) Having, or surrounded by, three fasciae, or bands.
Trifid (a.) Cleft to the middle, or slightly beyond the middle, into three parts; three-cleft.
Trifistulary (a.) Having three pipes.
Trifle (n.) A thing of very little value or importance; a paltry, or trivial, affair.
Trifle (n.) A dish composed of sweetmeats, fruits, cake, wine, etc., with syllabub poured over it.
Trifled (imp. & p. p.) of Trifle
Trifling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trifle
Trifle (n.) To act or talk without seriousness, gravity, weight, or dignity; to act or talk with levity; to indulge in light or trivial amusements.
Trifle (v. t.) To make of no importance; to treat as a trifle.
Trifle (v. t.) To spend in vanity; to fritter away; to waste; as, to trifle away money.
Trifler (n.) One who trifles.
Trifling (a.) Being of small value or importance; trivial; paltry; as, a trifling debt; a trifling affair.
Trifloral (a.) Alt. of Triflorous
Triflorous (a.) Three-flowered; having or bearing three flowers; as, a triflorous peduncle.
Trifluctuation (n.) A concurrence of three waves.
Trifoliate (a.) Alt. of Trifoliated
Trifoliated (a.) Having three leaves or leaflets, as clover. See Illust. of Shamrock.
Trifoliolate (a.) Having three leaflets.
Trifolium (n.) A genus of leguminous herbs with densely spiked flowers and usually trifoliate leaves; trefoil. There are many species, all of which are called clover. See Clover.
Trifoly (n.) Sweet trefoil.
Triforium (n.) The gallery or open space between the vaulting and the roof of the aisles of a church, often forming a rich arcade in the interior of the church, above the nave arches and below the clearstory windows.
Triform (a.) Having a triple form or character.
Triformity (n.) The state of being triform, or of having a threefold shape.
Trifurcate (a.) Alt. of Trifurcated
Trifurcated (a.) Having three branches or forks; trichotomous.
Trig (v. t.) To fill; to stuff; to cram.
Trig (a.) Full; also, trim; neat.
Trig (v. t.) To stop, as a wheel, by placing something under it; to scotch; to skid.
Trig (n.) A stone, block of wood, or anything else, placed under a wheel or barrel to prevent motion; a scotch; a skid.
Trigamist (n.) One who has been married three times; also, one who has three husbands or three wives at the same time.
Trigamous (a.) Having three sorts of flowers in the same head, -- male, female, and hermaphrodite, or perfect, flowers.
Trigamy (n.) The act of marrying, or the state of being married, three times; also, the offense of having three husbands or three wives at the same time.
Trigastric (a.) Having three bellies; -- said of a muscle.
Trigeminal (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, the fifth pair of cranial nerves, which divide on each side of the head into three main branches distributed to the orbits, jaws, and parts of the mouth; trifacial.
Trigeminous (a.) Born three together; being one of three born at the same birth; also, threefold.
Trigenic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C4H7N3O2, obtained, by the action of the vapor of cyanic acid on cold aldehyde, as a white crystalline substance having a slightly acid taste and faint smell; -- called also ethidene- / ethylidene-biuret.
Trigesimo-secundo (a.) Having thirty-two leaves to a sheet; as, a trigesimo-secundo form, book, leaf, size, etc.
Trigesimo-secundo (n.) A book composed of sheets so folded that each one makes thirty-two leaves; hence, indicating, more or less definitely, a size of book; -- usually written 32mo, or 32, and called thirty-twomo.
Trigger (n.) A catch to hold the wheel of a carriage on a declivity.
Trigger (n.) A piece, as a lever, which is connected with a catch or detent as a means of releasing it; especially (Firearms), the part of a lock which is moved by the finger to release the cock and discharge the piece.
Trigintal (n.) A trental.
Triglyceride (n.) A glyceride formed by the replacement of three hydrogen atoms in glycerin by acid radicals.
Triglyph (n.) An ornament in the frieze of the Doric order, repeated at equal intervals. Each triglyph consists of a rectangular tablet, slightly projecting, and divided nearly to the top by two parallel and perpendicular gutters, or channels, called glyphs, into three parts, or spaces, called femora. A half channel, or glyph, is also cut upon each of the perpendicular edges of the tablet. See Illust. of Entablature.
Triglyphic (a.) Alt. of Triglyphical
Triglyphical (a.) Consisting of, or pertaining to, triglyphs.
Triglyphical (a.) Containing three sets of characters or sculptures.
Trigness (n.) The quality or state of being trig; smartness; neatness.
Trigon (n.) A figure having three angles; a triangle.
Trigon (n.) A division consisting of three signs.
Trigon (n.) Trine, an aspect of two planets distant 120 degrees from each other.
Trigon (n.) A kind of triangular lyre or harp.
Trigon (n.) A kind of game at ball played by three persons standing at the angular points of a triangle.
Trigonal (a.) Having three angles, or corners; triangular; as, a trigonal stem, one having tree prominent longitudinal angles.
Trigone (n.) A smooth triangular area on the inner surface of the bladder, limited by the apertures of the ureters and urethra.
Trigonia (n.) A genus of pearly bivalve shells, numerous extinct species of which are characteristic of the Mesozoic rocks. A few living species exist on the coast of Australia.
Trigonocerous (a.) Having horns with three angles, like those of some species of goats.
Trigonometric () Alt. of Trigonometrical
Trigonometrical () Of or pertaining to trigonometry; performed by the rules of trigonometry.
-tries (pl. ) of Trigonometry
Trigonometry (n.) That branch of mathematics which treats of the relations of the sides and angles of triangles, which the methods of deducing from certain given parts other required parts, and also of the general relations which exist between the trigonometrical functions of arcs or angles.
Trigonometry (n.) A treatise in this science.
Trigonous (a.) Same as Trigonal.
Trigram (n.) Same as Trigraph.
Trigrammatic (a.) Containing three letters or characters, or three sets of letters or characters.
Trigrammic (a.) Same as Trigrammatic.
Trigraph (n.) Three letters united in pronunciation so as to have but one sound, or to form but one syllable, as -ieu in adieu; a triphthong.
Trigyn (n.) Any one of the Trigynia.
Trigynia (n. pl.) A Linnaean order of plants having three pistils or styles.
Trigynian (a.) Alt. of Trigynous
Trigynous (a.) Having three pistils or styles; of or pertaining to the Trigynia.
Trihedral (a.) Having three sides or faces; thus, a trihedral angle is a solid angle bounded by three plane angles.
Trihedron (n.) A figure having three sides.
Trihoral (a.) Occurring once in every three hours.
Trijugate (a.) In three pairs; as, a trijugate leaf, or a pinnate leaf with three pairs of leaflets.
Trijugous (a.) Same as Trijugate.
Trikosane (n.) A hydrocarbon, C23H48, of the methane series, resembling paraffin; -- so called because it has twenty-three atoms of carbon in the molecule.
Trilateral (a.) Having three sides; being three-sided; as, a trilateral triangle.
Trilemma (n.) A syllogism with three conditional propositions, the major premises of which are disjunctively affirmed in the minor. See Dilemma.
Trilemma (n.) A state of things in which it is difficult to determine which one of three courses to pursue.
Trilinear (a.) Of, pertaining to, or included by, three lines; as, trilinear coordinates.
Trilingual (a.) Containing, or consisting of, three languages; expressed in three languages.
Trilinguar (a.) See Trilingual.
Triliteral (a.) Consisting of three letters; trigrammic; as, a triliteral root or word.
Triliteral (n.) A triliteral word.
Triliteralism (n.) Same as Triliterality.
Triliterality (n.) Alt. of Triliteralness
Triliteralness (n.) The quality of being triliteral; as, the triliterality of Hebrew roots.
Trilith (n.) Same as Trilithon.
Trilithic (a.) Pertaining to a trilith.
Trilithons (pl. ) of Trilithon
Trilithon (n.) A monument consisting of three stones; especially, such a monument forming a kind of doorway, as among the ancient Celts.
Trill (v. i.) To flow in a small stream, or in drops rapidly succeeding each other; to trickle.
Trill (v. t.) To turn round; to twirl.
Trilled (imp. & p. p.) of Trill
Trilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trill
Trill (v. t.) To impart the quality of a trill to; to utter as, or with, a trill; as, to trill the r; to trill a note.
Trill (v. i.) To utter trills or a trill; to play or sing in tremulous vibrations of sound; to have a trembling sound; to quaver.
Trill (n.) A sound, of consonantal character, made with a rapid succession of partial or entire intermissions, by the vibration of some one part of the organs in the mouth -- tongue, uvula, epiglottis, or lip -- against another part; as, the r is a trill in most languages.
Trill (n.) The action of the organs in producing such sounds; as, to give a trill to the tongue. d
Trill (n.) A shake or quaver of the voice in singing, or of the sound of an instrument, produced by the rapid alternation of two contiguous tones of the scale; as, to give a trill on the high C. See Shake.
Trillachan (n.) The oyster catcher.
Trilling (n.) One of tree children born at the same birth.
Trilling (n.) A compound crystal, consisting of three individuals.
Trillion (n.) According to the French notation, which is used upon the Continent generally and in the United States, the number expressed by a unit with twelve ciphers annexed; a million millions; according to the English notation, the number produced by involving a million to the third power, or the number represented by a unit with eighteen ciphers annexed. See the Note under Numeration.
Trillium (n.) A genus of liliaceous plants; the three-leaved nightshade; -- so called because all the parts of the plant are in threes.
Trillo (n.) A trill or shake. See Trill.
Trilobate (a.) Having three lobes.
Trilobation (n.) The state of being trilobate.
Trilobed (a.) Same as Trilobate.
Trilobita (n. pl.) An extinct order of arthropods comprising the trilobites.
Trilobite (n.) Any one of numerous species of extinct arthropods belonging to the order Trilobita. Trilobites were very common in the Silurian and Devonian periods, but became extinct at the close of the Paleozoic. So named from the three lobes usually seen on each segment.
Trilobitic (a.) Of, pertaining to or containing, trilobites; as, trilobitic rocks.
Trilocular (a.) Having three cells or cavities; as, a trilocular capsule; a trilocular heart.
Trilogy (n.) A series of three dramas which, although each of them is in one sense complete, have a close mutual relation, and form one historical and poetical picture. Shakespeare's " Henry VI." is an example.
Triluminar (a.) Alt. of Triluminous
Triluminous (a.) Having three lights
Trimmed (imp. & p. p.) of Trim
Trimming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trim
Trim (v. t.) To make trim; to put in due order for any purpose; to make right, neat, or pleasing; to adjust.
Trim (v. t.) To dress; to decorate; to adorn; to invest; to embellish; as, to trim a hat.
Trim (v. t.) To make ready or right by cutting or shortening; to clip or lop; to curtail; as, to trim the hair; to trim a tree.
Trim (v. t.) To dress, as timber; to make smooth.
Trim (v. t.) To adjust, as a ship, by arranging the cargo, or disposing the weight of persons or goods, so equally on each side of the center and at each end, that she shall sit well on the water and sail well; as, to trim a ship, or a boat.
Trim (v. t.) To arrange in due order for sailing; as, to trim the sails.
Trim (v. t.) To rebuke; to reprove; also, to beat.
Trim (v. i.) To balance; to fluctuate between parties, so as to appear to favor each.
Trim (n.) Dress; gear; ornaments.
Trim (n.) Order; disposition; condition; as, to be in good trim.
Trim (n.) The state of a ship or her cargo, ballast, masts, etc., by which she is well prepared for sailing.
Trim (n.) The lighter woodwork in the interior of a building; especially, that used around openings, generally in the form of a molded architrave, to protect the plastering at those points.
Trim (v. t.) Fitly adjusted; being in good order., or made ready for service or use; firm; compact; snug; neat; fair; as, the ship is trim, or trim built; everything about the man is trim; a person is trim when his body is well shaped and firm; his dress is trim when it fits closely to his body, and appears tight and snug; a man or a soldier is trim when he stands erect.
Trimaculated (a.) Marked with three spots, or maculae.
Trimellic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a certain tribasic acid (called also trimellitic acid) metameric with trimesitic acid.
Trimembral (a.) Having, or consisting of, three members.
Trimera (n. pl.) A division of Coleoptera including those which have but three joints in the tarsi.
Trimeran (n.) One of the Trimera. Also used adjectively.
Trimerous (a.) Having the parts in threes.
Trimesitic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a tribasic acid, C6H3.(CO2)3, of the aromatic series, obtained, by the oxidation of mesitylene, as a white crystalline substance.
Trimester (n.) A term or period of three months.
Trimestral (a.) Trimestrial.
Trimestrial (a.) Of or pertaining to a trimester, or period of three months; occurring once in every three months; quarterly.
Trimeter (a.) Consisting of three poetical measures.
Trimeter (n.) A poetical division of verse, consisting of three measures.
Trimethyl () A prefix or combining form (also used adjectively) indicating the presence of three methyl groups.
Trimethylamine (n.) A colorless volatile alkaline liquid, N.(CH3)3, obtained from herring brine, beet roots, etc., with a characteristic herringlike odor. It is regarded as a substituted ammonia containing three methyl groups.
Trimethylene (n.) A gaseous hydrocarbon, C3H6, isomeric with propylene and obtained from it indirectly. It is the base of a series of compounds analogous to the aromatic hydrocarbons.
Trimetric (a.) Same as Orthorhombic.
Trimetrical (a.) Same as Trimeter.
Trimly (adv.) In a trim manner; nicely.
Trimmer (n.) One who trims, arranges, fits, or ornaments.
Trimmer (n.) One who does not adopt extreme opinions in politics, or the like; one who fluctuates between parties, so as to appear to favor each; a timeserver.
Trimmer (n.) An instrument with which trimming is done.
Trimmer (n.) A beam, into which are framed the ends of headers in floor framing, as when a hole is to be left for stairs, or to avoid bringing joists near chimneys, and the like. See Illust. of Header.
Trimming () a. from Trim, v.
Trimming (n.) The act of one who trims.
Trimming (n.) That which serves to trim, make right or fitting, adjust, ornament, or the like; especially, the necessary or the ornamental appendages, as of a garment; hence, sometimes, the concomitants of a dish; a relish; -- usually in the pluraltrimmings. --.
Trimming (n.) The act of reprimanding or chastisting; as, to give a boy a trimming.
Trimmingly (adv.) In a trimming manner.
Trimness (n.) The quality or state of being trim; orderliness; compactness; snugness; neatness.
Trimorph (n.) A substance which crystallizes in three distinct forms, or which has three distinct physical states; also, any one of these distinct forms. See Trimorphism, 1.
Trimorphic (a.) Alt. of Trimorphous
Trimorphous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or characterized by, trimorphism; -- contrasted with monomorphic, dimorphic, and polymorphic.
Trimorphism (n.) The property of crystallizing in three forms fundamentally distinct, as is the case with titanium dioxide, which crystallizes in the forms of rutile, octahedrite, and brookite. See Pleomorphism.
Trimorphism (n.) The coexistence among individuals of the same species of three distinct forms, not connected, as a rule, by intermediate gradations; the condition among individuals of the same species of having three different shapes or proportions of corresponding parts; -- contrasted with polymorphism, and dimorphism.
Trimurti (n.) The triad, or trinity, of Hindu gods, consisting of Brahma, the Creator, Vishnu, the Preserver, and Siva, the Destroyer.
Trimyarian (n.) A lamellibranch which has three muscular scars on each valve.
Trinal (a.) Threefold.
Trindle (v. t. & n.) See Trundle.
Trine (a.) Threefold; triple; as, trine dimensions, or length, breadth, and thickness.
Trine (n.) The aspect of planets distant from each other 120 degrees, or one third of the zodiac; trigon.
Trine (n.) A triad; trinity.
Trine (v. t.) To put in the aspect of a trine.
Trinervate (a.) Having three ribs or nerves extending unbranched from the base to the apex; -- said of a leaf.
Trinerve (a.) Alt. of Trinerved
Trinerved (a.) Same as Trinervate.
Tringa (n.) A genus of limicoline birds including many species of sandpipers. See Dunlin, Knot, and Sandpiper.
Tringle (n.) A curtain rod for a bedstead.
Tringoid (a.) Of or pertaining to Tringa, or the Sandpiper family.
Trinitarian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Trinity, the doctrine of the Trinity, or believers in that doctrine.
Trinitarian (n.) One who believes in the doctrine of the Trinity.
Trinitarian (n.) One of a monastic order founded in Rome in 1198 by St. John of Matha, and an old French hermit, Felix of Valois, for the purpose of redeeming Christian captives from the Mohammedans.
Trinitarianism (n.) The doctrine of the Trinity; the doctrine that there are three distinct persons in the Godhead.
Trinitrocellulose (n.) Gun cotton; -- so called because regarded as containing three nitro groups.
Trinitrophenol (n.) Picric acid.
Trinity (n.) The union of three persons (the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost) in one Godhead, so that all the three are one God as to substance, but three persons as to individuality.
Trinity (n.) Any union of three in one; three units treated as one; a triad, as the Hindu trinity, or Trimurti.
Trinity (n.) Any symbol of the Trinity employed in Christian art, especially the triangle.
Triniunity (n.) Triunity; trinity.
Trink (n.) A kind of fishing net.
Trinket (n.) A three-cornered sail formerly carried on a ship's foremast, probably on a lateen yard.
Trinket (v. t.) A knife; a cutting tool.
Trinket (v. t.) A small ornament, as a jewel, ring, or the like.
Trinket (v. t.) A thing of little value; a trifle; a toy.
Trinket (v. i.) To give trinkets; hence, to court favor; to intrigue.
Trinketer (n.) One who trinkets.
Trinketry (n.) Ornaments of dress; trinkets, collectively.
Trinkle (v. i.) To act secretly, or in an underhand way; to tamper.
Trinoctial (a.) Lasting during three nights; comprising three nights.
Trinodal (a.) Having three knots or nodes; having three points from which a leaf may shoot; as, a trinodal stem.
Trinodal (a.) Having three nodal points.
Trinomial (n.) A quantity consisting of three terms, connected by the sign + or -; as, x + y + z, or ax + 2b - c2.
Trinomial (a.) Consisting of three terms; of or pertaining to trinomials; as, a trinomial root.
Trinominal (n. & a.) Trinomial.
Trinucleus (n.) A genus of Lower Silurian trilobites in which the glabella and cheeks form three rounded elevations on the head.
Trio (n.) Three, considered collectively; three in company or acting together; a set of three; three united.
Trio (n.) A composition for three parts or three instruments.
Trio (n.) The secondary, or episodical, movement of a minuet or scherzo, as in a sonata or symphony, or of a march, or of various dance forms; -- not limited to three parts or instruments.
Triobolar (a.) Alt. of Triobolary
Triobolary (a.) Of the value of three oboli; hence, mean; worthless.
Trioctile (n.) An aspect of two planets with regard to the earth when they are three octants, or three eighths of a circle, that is, 135 degrees, distant from each other.
Tri/cia (n. pl.) The third order of the Linnaean class Polygamia.
Tri/cious (a.) Having three sorts of flowers on the same or on different plants, some of the flowers being staminate, others pistillate, and others both staminate and pistillate; belonging to the order Tri/cia.
Triole (n.) Same as Triplet.
Triolein (n.) See Olein.
Triolet (n.) A short poem or stanza of eight lines, in which the first line is repeated as the fourth and again as the seventh line, the second being, repeated as the eighth.
Trionychoidea (n. pl.) A division of chelonians which comprises Trionyx and allied genera; -- called also Trionychoides, and Trionychina.
Trionyx (n.) A genus of fresh-water or river turtles which have the shell imperfectly developed and covered with a soft leathery skin. They are noted for their agility and rapacity. Called also soft tortoise, soft-shell tortoise, and mud turtle.
Trior (n.) Same as Trier, 2 and 3.
Trioxide (n.) An oxide containing three atoms of oxygen; as, sulphur trioxide, SO3; -- formerly called tritoxide.
Tripped (imp. & p. p.) of Trip
Tripping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trip
Trip (n. i.) To move with light, quick steps; to walk or move lightly; to skip; to move the feet nimbly; -- sometimes followed by it. See It, 5.
Trip (n. i.) To make a brief journey or pleasure excursion; as, to trip to Europe.
Trip (n. i.) To take a quick step, as when in danger of losing one's balance; hence, to make a false; to catch the foot; to lose footing; to stumble.
Trip (n. i.) Fig.: To be guilty of a misstep; to commit an offense against morality, propriety, or rule; to err; to mistake; to fail.
Trip (v. t.) To cause to stumble, or take a false step; to cause to lose the footing, by striking the feet from under; to cause to fall; to throw off the balance; to supplant; -- often followed by up; as, to trip up a man in wrestling.
Trip (v. t.) Fig.: To overthrow by depriving of support; to put an obstacle in the way of; to obstruct; to cause to fail.
Trip (v. t.) To detect in a misstep; to catch; to convict.
Trip (v. t.) To raise (an anchor) from the bottom, by its cable or buoy rope, so that it hangs free.
Trip (v. t.) To pull (a yard) into a perpendicular position for lowering it.
Trip (v. t.) To release, let fall, or see free, as a weight or compressed spring, as by removing a latch or detent.
Trip (n.) A quick, light step; a lively movement of the feet; a skip.
Trip (n.) A brief or rapid journey; an excursion or jaunt.
Trip (n.) A false step; a stumble; a misstep; a loss of footing or balance. Fig.: An error; a failure; a mistake.
Trip (n.) A small piece; a morsel; a bit.
Trip (n.) A stroke, or catch, by which a wrestler causes his antagonist to lose footing.
Trip (n.) A single board, or tack, in plying, or beating, to windward.
Trip (n.) A herd or flock, as of sheep, goats, etc.
Trip (n.) A troop of men; a host.
Trip (n.) A flock of widgeons.
Tripalmitate (n.) A palmitate derived from three molecules of palmitic acid.
Tripalmitin (n.) See Palmitin.
Tripang (n.) See Trepang.
Triparted (a.) Parted into three piece; having three parts or pieces; -- said of the field or of a bearing; as, a cross triparted.
Triparted (a.) Divided nearly to the base into three segments or lobes.
Tripartible (a.) Divisible into three parts.
Tripartient (a.) Dividing into three parts; -- said of a number which exactly divides another into three parts.
Tripartite (v. i.) Divided into three parts; triparted; as, a tripartite leaf.
Tripartite (v. i.) Having three corresponding parts or copies; as, to make indentures tripartite.
Tripartite (v. i.) Made between three parties; as, a tripartite treaty.
Tripartitely (adv.) In a tripartite manner.
Tripartition (n.) A division by threes, or into three parts; the taking of a third part of any number or quantity.
Tripaschal (a.) Including three passovers.
Tripe (n.) The large stomach of ruminating animals, when prepared for food.
Tripe (n.) The entrails; hence, humorously or in contempt, the belly; -- generally used in the plural.
Tripedal (a.) Having three feet.
Tripe-de-roche (n.) Same as Rock tripe, under Rock.
Tripel (n.) Same as Tripoli.
-men (pl. ) of Tripeman
Tripeman (n.) A man who prepares or sells tripe.
Tripennate (a.) Same as Tripinnate.
Tripersonal (a.) Consisting of three persons.
Tripersonalist (n.) A Trinitarian.
Tripersonality (n.) The state of existing as three persons in one Godhead; trinity.
Tripery (n.) A place where tripe is prepared or sold.
Tripestone (n.) A variety of anhydrite composed of contorted plates fancied to resemble pieces of tripe.
Tripetaloid (a.) Having the form or appearance of three petals; appearing as if furnished with three petals.
Tripetalous (a.) Having three petals, or flower leaves; three-petaled.
Trip hammer () A tilt hammer.
Triphane (n.) Spodumene.
Triphthong (n.) A combination of three vowel sounds in a single syllable, forming a simple or compound sound; also, a union of three vowel characters, representing together a single sound; a trigraph; as, eye, -ieu in adieu, -eau in beau, are examples of triphthongs.
Triphthongal (a.) Of or pertaining to a triphthong; consisting of three vowel sounds pronounced together in a single syllable.
Triphyline (n.) Triphylite.
Triphylite (n.) A mineral of a grayish-green or bluish color, consisting of the phosphates of iron, manganese, and lithia.
Triphyllous (a.) Having three leaves; three-leaved.
Tripinnate (a.) Having bipinnate leaflets arranged on each side of a rhachis.
Tripinnatifid (a.) Thrice pinnately cleft; -- said of a pinnatifid leaf when its segments are pinnatifid, and the subdivisions of these also are pinnatifid.
Triplasian (a.) Three-fold; triple; treble.
Triple (a.) Consisting of three united; multiplied by three; threefold; as, a triple knot; a triple tie.
Triple (a.) Three times repeated; treble. See Treble.
Triple (a.) One of three; third.
Tripled (imp. & p. p.) of Triple
Tripling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Triple
Triple (a.) To make threefold, or thrice as much or as many; to treble; as, to triple the tax on coffee.
Triple-crowned (a.) Having three crowns; wearing the triple crown, as the pope.
Triple-headed (a.) Having three heads; three-headed; as, the triple-headed dog Cerberus.
Triplet (n.) A collection or combination of three of a kind; three united.
Triplet (n.) Three verses rhyming together.
Triplet (n.) A group of three notes sung or played in the tree of two.
Triplet (n.) Three children or offspring born at one birth.
Triple-tail (n.) An edible fish (Lobotes Surinamensis) found in the warmer parts of all the oceans, and common on the southern and middle coasts of the United States. When living it is silvery gray, and becomes brown or blackish when dead. Its dorsal and anal fins are long, and extend back on each side of the tail. It has large silvery scales which are used in the manufacture of fancy work. Called also, locally, black perch, grouper, and flasher.
Triplicate (v. t.) Made thrice as much; threefold; tripled.
Triplicate (n.) A third thing corresponding to two others of the same kind.
Triplicate-ternate (a.) Triternate.
Triplication (n.) The act of tripling, or making threefold, or adding three together.
Triplication (n.) Same as Surrejoinder.
Triplicity (a.) The quality or state of being triple, or threefold; trebleness.
Triplicostate (a.) Three-ribbed.
Triplite (n.) A mineral of a dark brown color, generally with a fibrous, massive structure. It is a fluophosphate of iron and manganese.
Triploblastic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, that condition of the ovum in which there are three primary germinal layers, or in which the blastoderm splits into three layers.
Triploidite (n.) A manganese phosphate near triplite, but containing hydroxyl instead of fluorine.
Triply (adv.) In a triple manner.
Tripmadam (n.) Same as Prickmadam.
Tripod (n.) Any utensil or vessel, as a stool, table, altar, caldron, etc., supported on three feet.
Tripod (n.) A three-legged frame or stand, usually jointed at top, for supporting a theodolite, compass, telescope, camera, or other instrument.
Tripodian (n.) An ancient stringed instrument; -- so called because, in form, it resembled the Delphic tripod.
Tripody (n.) Three metrical feet taken together, or included in one measure.
Tripoli (n.) An earthy substance originally brought from Tripoli, used in polishing stones and metals. It consists almost wholly of the siliceous shells of diatoms.
Tripoline (a.) Of or pertaining to Tripoli or its inhabitants; Tripolitan.
Tripoline (a.) Of or pertaining to tripoli, the mineral.
Tripolitan (a.) Of or pertaining to Tripoli or its inhabitants; Tripoline.
Tripolitan (n.) A native or inhabitant of Tripoli.
Triposes (pl. ) of Tripos
Tripos (n.) A tripod.
Tripos (n.) A university examination of questionists, for honors; also, a tripos paper; one who prepares a tripos paper.
Trippant (a.) See Tripping, a., 2.
Tripper (n.) One who trips or supplants; also, one who walks or trips nimbly; a dancer.
Tripper (n.) An excursionist.
Trippet (n.) A cam, wiper, or projecting piece which strikes another piece repeatedly.
Tripping (a.) Quick; nimble; stepping lightly and quickly.
Tripping (a.) Having the right forefoot lifted, the others remaining on the ground, as if he were trotting; trippant; -- said of an animal, as a hart, buck, and the like, used as a bearing.
Tripping (n.) Act of one who, or that which, trips.
Tripping (n.) A light dance.
Tripping (n.) The loosing of an anchor from the ground by means of its cable or buoy rope.
Trippingly (adv.) In a tripping manner; with a light, nimble, quick step; with agility; nimbly.
Tripsis (n.) Trituration.
Tripsis (n.) Shampoo.
Triptote (n.) A noun having three cases only.
Triptych (n.) Anything in three parts or leaves.
Triptych (n.) A writing tablet in three parts, two of which fold over on the middle part.
Triptych (n.) A picture or altarpiece in three compartments.
Tripudiary (a.) Of or pertaining to dancing; performed by dancing.
Tripudiate (v. i.) To dance.
Tripudiation (n.) The act of dancing.
Triquadrantal (a.) Having three quadrants; thus, a triquadrantal triangle is one whose three sides are quadrants, and whose three angles are consequently right angles.
Triquetral (a.) Triquetrous.
Triquetrous (a.) Three sided, the sides being plane or concave; having three salient angles or edges; trigonal.
Triquetra (pl. ) of Triquetrum
Triquetrum (n.) One of the bones of the carpus; the cuneiform. See Cuneiform (b).
Triradiate (a.) Alt. of Triradiated
Triradiated (a.) Having three rays.
Trirectangular (a.) Having three right angles. See Triquadrantal.
Trireme (n.) An ancient galley or vessel with tree banks, or tiers, of oars.
Trirhomboidal (a.) Having three rhombic faces or sides.
Trisacramentarian (n.) One who recognizes three sacraments, and no more; -- namely, baptism, the Lord's Supper, and penance. See Sacrament.
Trisagion (n.) An ancient anthem, -- usually known by its Latin name tersanctus.See Tersanctus.
Trisected (imp. & p. p.) of Trisect
Trisecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trisect
Trisect (v. t.) To cut or divide into three parts.
Trisect (v. t.) To cut or divide into three equal parts.
Trisected (a.) Divided into three parts or segments by incisions extending to the midrib or to the base; -- said of leaves.
Trisection (n.) The division of a thing into three parts, Specifically: (Geom.) the division of an angle into three equal parts.
Triseralous (a.) Having three sepals, or calyx leaves.
Triserial (a.) Alt. of Triseriate
Triseriate (a.) Arranged in three vertical or spiral rows.
Trismus (n.) The lockjaw.
Trisnitrate (n.) A nitrate formed from three molecules of nitric acid; also, less properly, applied to certain basic nitrates; as, trisnitrate of bismuth.
Trisoctahedron (n.) A solid of the isometric system bounded by twenty-four equal faces, three corresponding to each face of an octahedron.
Trispast (n.) Alt. of Trispaston
Trispaston (n.) A machine with three pulleys which act together for raising great weights.
Trispermous (a.) Containing three seeds; three-seeded; as, a trispermous capsule.
Trisplanchnic (a.) Of or pertaining to the three great splanchnic cavities, namely, that of the head, the chest, and the abdomen; -- applied to the sympathetic nervous system.
Triste (imp.) of Trist
Trist (v. t. & i.) To trust.
Trist (n.) Trust.
Trist (n.) A post, or station, in hunting.
Trist (n.) A secret meeting, or the place of such meeting; a tryst. See Tryst.
Trist (a.) Sad; sorrowful; gloomy.
Triste (n.) A cattle fair.
Tristearate (n.) Tristearin.
Tristearin (n.) See Stearin.
Tristtul (a.) Sad; sorrowful; gloomy.
Tristfully (adv.) In a tristful manner; sadly.
Tristichous (a.) Arranged in three vertical rows.
Tristigmatic (a.) Alt. of Tristigmatose
Tristigmatose (a.) Having, or consisting of, three stigmas.
Tristitiate (v. t.) To make sad.
Tristoma (n.) Any one of numerous species of trematode worms belonging to Tristoma and allied genera having a large posterior sucker and two small anterior ones. They usually have broad, thin, and disklike bodies, and are parasite on the gills and skin of fishes.
Tristy (a.) See Trist, a.
Trisuls (n.) Something having three forks or prongs, as a trident.
Trisulcate (a.) Having three furrows, forks, or prongs; having three grooves or sulci; three-grooved.
Trisulphide (n.) A sulphide containing three atoms of sulphur.
Trisyllabic (a.) Alt. of Trisyllabical
Trisyllabical (a.) Of or pertaining to a trisyllable; consisting of three syllables; as, "syllable" is a trisyllabic word.
Trisyllable (n.) A word consisting of three syllables only; as, a-ven-ger.
Trite (a.) Worn out; common; used until so common as to have lost novelty and interest; hackneyed; stale; as, a trite remark; a trite subject.
Triternate (a.) Three times ternate; -- applied to a leaf whose petiole separates into three branches, each of which divides into three parts which each bear three leafiets.
Tritheism (n.) The opinion or doctrine that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are three distinct Gods.
Tritheist (n.) One who believes in tritheism.
Tritheistic (a.) Alt. of Tritheistical
Tritheistical (a.) Of or pertaining to tritheism.
Tritheite (n.) A tritheist.
Trithing (n.) One of three ancient divisions of a county in England; -- now called riding.
Trithionate (n.) A salt of trithionic acid.
Trithionic (a.) Of or pertaining to, or designating, a certain thionic acid, H2S3O6 which is obtained as a colorless, odorless liquid.
Tritical (a.) Trite.
Triticin (n.) A carbohydrate isomeric with dextrin, obtained from quitch grass (Agropyrum, formerly Triticum, repens) as a white amorphous substance.
Triticum (n.) A genus of grasses including the various species of wheat.
Triton (n.) A fabled sea demigod, the son of Neptune and Amphitrite, and the trumpeter of Neptune. He is represented by poets and painters as having the upper part of his body like that of a man, and the lower part like that of a fish. He often has a trumpet made of a shell.
Triton (n.) Any one of many species of marine gastropods belonging to Triton and allied genera, having a stout spiral shell, often handsomely colored and ornamented with prominent varices. Some of the species are among the largest of all gastropods. Called also trumpet shell, and sea trumpet.
Triton (n.) Any one of numerous species of aquatic salamanders. The common European species are Hemisalamandra cristata, Molge palmata, and M. alpestris, a red-bellied species common in Switzerland. The most common species of the United States is Diemyctylus viridescens. See Illust. under Salamander.
Tritone (n.) A superfluous or augmented fourth.
Tritorium (n.) Same as Triturium.
Tritova (pl. ) of Tritovum
Tritovum (n.) An embryonic insect which has twice cast its skin previous to hatching from the egg.
Tritozooid (n.) A zooid of the third generation in asexual reproduction.
Triturable (a.) Capable of being triturated.
Triturated (imp. & p. p.) of Triturate
Triturating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Triturate
Triturate (v. t.) To rub, grind, bruise, or thrash.
Triturate (v. t.) To rub or grind to a very fine or impalpable powder; to pulverize and comminute thoroughly.
Trituration (n.) The act of triturating, or reducing to a fine or impalpable powder by grinding, rubbing, bruising, etc.
Triture (n.) A rubbing or grinding; trituration.
Triturium (n.) A vessel for separating liquids of different densities.
Trityl (n.) Propyl.
Tritylene (n.) Propylene.
Triumph (n.) A magnificent and imposing ceremonial performed in honor of a general who had gained a decisive victory over a foreign enemy.
Triumph (n.) Hence, any triumphal procession; a pompous exhibition; a stately show or pageant.
Triumph (n.) A state of joy or exultation for success.
Triumph (n.) Success causing exultation; victory; conquest; as, the triumph of knowledge.
Triumph (n.) A trump card; also, an old game at cards.
Triumphed (imp. & p. p.) of Triumph
Triumphing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Triumph
Triumph (n.) To celebrate victory with pomp; to rejoice over success; to exult in an advantage gained; to exhibit exultation.
Triumph (n.) To obtain victory; to be successful; to prevail.
Triumph (n.) To be prosperous; to flourish.
Triumph (n.) To play a trump card.
Triumph (v. t.) To obtain a victory over; to prevail over; to conquer. Also, to cause to triumph.
Triumphal (a.) Of or pertaining to triumph; used in a triumph; indicating, or in honor of, a triumph or victory; as, a triumphal crown; a triumphal arch.
Triumphal (n.) A token of victory.
Triumplant (v. i.) Rejoicing for victory; triumphing; exultant.
Triumplant (v. i.) Celebrating victory; expressive of joy for success; as, a triumphant song or ode.
Triumplant (v. i.) Graced with conquest; victorious.
Triumplant (v. i.) Of or pertaining to triumph; triumphal.
Triumphantly (adv.) In a triumphant manner.
Triumpher (n.) One who was honored with a triumph; a victor.
Triumpher (n.) One who triumphs or rejoices for victory.
Triumphing (a.) Having or celebrating a triumph; victorious; triumphant.
Triumviri (pl. ) of Triumvir
Triumvirs (pl. ) of Triumvir
Triumvir (n.) One of tree men united in public office or authority.
Triumvirate (n.) Government by three in coalition or association; the term of such a government.
Triumvirate (n.) A coalition or association of three in office or authority; especially, the union of three men who obtained the government of the Roman empire.
Triumviry (n.) A triumvirate.
Triune (a.) Being three in one; -- an epithet used to express the unity of a trinity of persons in the Godhead.
Triunguli (pl. ) of Triungulus
Triungulus (n.) The active young larva of any oil beetle. It has feet armed with three claws, and is parasitic on bees. See Illust. of Oil beetle, under Oil.
Triunity (n.) The quality or state of being triune; trinity.
Trivalence (n.) The quality or state of being trivalent.
Trivalent (a.) Having a valence of three; capable of being combined with, substituted for, or compared with, three atoms of hydrogen; -- said of triad atoms or radicals; thus, nitrogen is trivalent in ammonia.
Trivalve (n.) Anything having three valves, especially a shell.
Trivalvular (a.) Having three valves; three-valved.
Trivant (n.) A truant.
Triverbial (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, certain days allowed to the pretor for hearing causes, when be might speak the three characteristic words of his office, do, dico, addico. They were called dies fasti.
Trivet (n.) A tree-legged stool, table, or other support; especially, a stand to hold a kettle or similar vessel near the fire; a tripod.
Trivet (n.) A weaver's knife. See Trevat.
Trivial (a.) Found anywhere; common.
Trivial (a.) Ordinary; commonplace; trifling; vulgar.
Trivial (a.) Of little worth or importance; inconsiderable; trifling; petty; paltry; as, a trivial subject or affair.
Trivial (a.) Of or pertaining to the trivium.
Trivial (n.) One of the three liberal arts forming the trivium.
Trivialism (n.) A trivial matter or method; a triviality.
Trivialities (pl. ) of Triviality
Triviality (n.) The quality or state of being trivial; trivialness.
Triviality (n.) That which is trivial; a trifle.
Trivially (adv.) In a trivial manner.
Trivialness (n.) Quality or state of being trivial.
Trivium (n.) The three " liberal" arts, grammar, logic, and rhetoric; -- being a triple way, as it were, to eloquence.
Trivium (n.) The three anterior ambulacra of echinoderms, collectively.
Triweekly (a.) Occurring or appearing three times a week; thriceweekly; as, a triweekly newspaper.
Triweekly (adv.) Three times a week.
Triweekly (n.) A triweekly publication.
Troad (n.) See Trode.
Troat (v. i.) To cry, as a buck in rutting time.
Troat (n.) The cry of a buck in rutting time.
Trocar (n.) A stylet, usually with a triangular point, used for exploring tissues or for inserting drainage tubes, as in dropsy.
Trochaic (n.) A trochaic verse or measure.
Trochaic (a.) Alt. of Trochaical
Trochaical (a.) Of or pertaining to trochees; consisting of trochees; as, trochaic measure or verse.
Trochal (a.) Resembling a wheel.
Trochanter (n.) One of two processes near the head of the femur, the outer being called the great trochanter, and the inner the small trochanter.
Trochanter (n.) The third joint of the leg of an insect, or the second when the trochantine is united with the coxa.
Trochanteric (a.) Of or pertaining to one or both of the trochanters.
Trochantine (n.) The second joint of the leg of an insect, -- often united with the coxa.
Trochar (n.) See Trocar.
Troche (n.) A medicinal tablet or lozenge; strictly, one of circular form.
Trochee (n.) A foot of two syllables, the first long and the second short, as in the Latin word ante, or the first accented and the second unaccented, as in the English word motion; a choreus.
Trochil (n.) The crocodile bird.
Trochilic (a.) OF or pertaining to rotary motion; having power to draw out or turn round.
Trochilics (n.) The science of rotary motion, or of wheel work.
Trochili (n. pl.) A division of birds comprising the humming birds.
Trochilidist (n.) One who studies, or is versed in, the nature and habits of humming birds, or the Trochilidae.
Trochilos (n.) The crocodile bird, or trochil.
Trochili (pl. ) of Trochilus
Trochilus (n.) A genus of humming birds. It Formerly included all the known species.
Trochilus (n.) Any one of several species of wrens and kinglets.
Trochilus (n.) The crocodile bird.
Trochilus (n.) An annular molding whose section is concave, like the edge of a pulley; -- called also scotia.
Troching (n.) One of the small branches of a stag's antler.
Trochisci (pl. ) of Trochiscus
Trochiscus (n.) A kind of tablet or lozenge; a troche.
Trochisk (n.) See Trochiscus.
Trochite (n.) A wheel-like joint of the stem of a fossil crinoid.
Trochlea (n.) A pulley.
Trochlea (n.) A pulley, or a structure resembling a pulley; as, the trochlea, or pulleylike end, of the humerus, which articulates with the ulna; or the trochlea, or fibrous ring, in the upper part of the orbit, through which the superior oblique, or trochlear, muscle of the eye passes.
Trochlear (n.) Shaped like, or resembling, a pulley; pertaining to, or connected with, a trochlea; as, a trochlear articular surface; the trochlear muscle of the eye.
Trochleary (a.) Pertaining to, or connected with, a trochlea; trochlear; as, the trochleary, or trochlear, nerve.
Trochoid (n.) The curve described by any point in a wheel rolling on a line; a cycloid; a roulette; in general, the curve described by any point fixedly connected with a moving curve while the moving curve rolls without slipping on a second fixed curve, the curves all being in one plane. Cycloids, epicycloids, hypocycloids, cardioids, etc., are all trochoids.
Trochoid (a.) Admitting of rotation on an axis; -- sometimes applied to a pivot joint like that between the atlas and axis in the vertebral column.
Trochoid (a.) Top-shaped; having a flat base and conical spire; -- said of certain shells.
Trochoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the genus Trochus or family Trochidae.
Trochoidal (a.) Of or pertaining to a trochoid; having the properties of a trochoid.
Trochoidal (a.) See Trochoid, a.
Trochometer (n.) A contrivance for computing the revolutions of a wheel; an odometer.
Trochosphere (n.) A young larval form of many annelids, mollusks, and bryozoans, in which a circle of cilia is developed around the anterior end.
Trochi (pl. ) of Trochus
Trochus (n.) Any one of numerous species of marine univalve shells belonging to Trochus and many allied genera of the family Trochidae. Some of the species are called also topshells.
Troco (n.) An old English game; -- called also lawn billiards.
Trod () imp. & p. p. of Tread.
Trodden () p. p. of Tread.
Trode () imp. of Tread.
Trode (n.) Tread; footing.
Troglodyte (n.) One of any savage race that dwells in caves, instead of constructing dwellings; a cave dweller. Most of the primitive races of man were troglodytes.
Troglodyte (n.) An anthropoid ape, as the chimpanzee.
Troglodyte (n.) The wren.
Troglodytes (n.) A genus of apes including the chimpanzee.
Troglodytes (n.) A genus of singing birds including the common wrens.
Troglodytic (a.) Alt. of Troglodytical
Troglodytical (a.) Of or pertaining to a troglodyte, or dweller in caves.
Trogon (n.) Any one of numerous species of beautiful tropical birds belonging to the family Trogonidae. They are noted for the brilliant colors and the resplendent luster of their plumage.
Trogonoid (a.) Like or pertaining to the trogons.
Trogue (n.) A wooden trough, forming a drain.
Troic (a.) Pertaining to Troy; Trojan.
Troilite (n.) Native iron protosulphide, FeS. It is known only in meteoric irons, and is usually in imbedded nodular masses of a bronze color.
Troili (pl. ) of Troilus
Troiluses (pl. ) of Troilus
Troilus (n.) A large, handsome American butterfly (Euph/ades, / Papilio, troilus). It is black, with yellow marginal spots on the front wings, and blue spots on the rear wings.
Trojan (a.) Of or pertaining to ancient Troy or its inhabitants.
Trojan (n.) A native or inhabitant of Troy.
Troll (n.) A supernatural being, often represented as of diminutive size, but sometimes as a giant, and fabled to inhabit caves, hills, and like places; a witch.
Trolled (imp. & p. p.) of Troll
Trolling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Troll
Troll (v. t.) To move circularly or volubly; to roll; to turn.
Troll (v. t.) To send about; to circulate, as a vessel in drinking.
Troll (v. t.) To sing the parts of in succession, as of a round, a catch, and the like; also, to sing loudly or freely.
Troll (v. t.) To angle for with a trolling line, or with a book drawn along the surface of the water; hence, to allure.
Troll (v. t.) To fish in; to seek to catch fish from.
Troll (v. i.) To roll; to run about; to move around; as, to troll in a coach and six.
Troll (v. i.) To move rapidly; to wag.
Troll (v. i.) To take part in trolling a song.
Troll (v. i.) To fish with a rod whose line runs on a reel; also, to fish by drawing the hook through the water.
Troll (n.) The act of moving round; routine; repetition.
Troll (n.) A song the parts of which are sung in succession; a catch; a round.
Troll (n.) A trolley.
Troller (n.) One who trolls.
Trolley (n.) Alt. of Trolly
Trolly (n.) A form of truck which can be tilted, for carrying railroad materials, or the like.
Trolly (n.) A narrow cart that is pushed by hand or drawn by an animal.
Trolly (n.) A truck from which the load is suspended in some kinds of cranes.
Trolly (n.) A truck which travels along the fixed conductors, and forms a means of connection between them and a railway car.
Trollmydames (n.) The game of nineholes.
Trollop (n.) A stroller; a loiterer; esp., an idle, untidy woman; a slattern; a slut; a whore.
Trollopee (n.) A kind of loose dress for women.
Trombone (n.) A powerful brass instrument of the trumpet kind, thought by some to be the ancient sackbut, consisting of a tube in three parts, bent twice upon itself and ending in a bell. The middle part, bent double, slips into the outer parts, as in a telescope, so that by change of the vibrating length any tone within the compass of the instrument (which may be bass or tenor or alto or even, in rare instances, soprano) is commanded. It is the only member of the family of wind instruments whose scale, both diatonic and chromatic, is complete without the aid of keys or pistons, and which can slide from note to note as smoothly as the human voice or a violin. Softly blown, it has a rich and mellow sound, which becomes harsh and blatant when the tones are forced; used with discretion, its effect is often solemn and majestic.
Trombone (n.) The common European bittern.
Trommel (n.) A revolving buddle or sieve for separating, or sizing, ores.
Tromp (n.) A blowing apparatus, in which air, drawn into the upper part of a vertical tube through side holes by a stream of water within, is carried down with the water into a box or chamber below which it is led to a furnace.
Tromp (n.) Alt. of Trompe
Trompe (n.) A trumpet; a trump.
Trompil (n.) An aperture in a tromp.
Tron (n.) See 3d Trone, 2.
Trona (n.) A native double salt, consisting of a combination of neutral and acid sodium carbonate, Na2CO3.2HNaCO3.2H2O, occurring as a white crystalline fibrous deposit from certain soda brine springs and lakes; -- called also urao, and by the ancients nitrum.
Tronage (n.) A toll or duty paid for weighing wool; also, the act of weighing wool.
Tronator (n.) An officer in London whose duty was to weigh wool.
Trone (n.) A throne.
Trone (n.) A small drain.
Trone (n.) Alt. of Trones
Trones (n.) A steelyard.
Trones (n.) A form of weighing machine for heavy wares, consisting of two horizontal bars crossing each other, beaked at the extremities, and supported by a wooden pillar. It is now mostly disused.
Troop (n.) A collection of people; a company; a number; a multitude.
Troop (n.) Soldiers, collectively; an army; -- now generally used in the plural.
Troop (n.) Specifically, a small body of cavalry, light horse, or dragoons, consisting usually of about sixty men, commanded by a captain; the unit of formation of cavalry, corresponding to the company in infantry. Formerly, also, a company of horse artillery; a battery.
Troop (n.) A company of stageplayers; a troupe.
Troop (n.) A particular roll of the drum; a quick march.
Trooped (imp. & p. p.) of Troop
Trooping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Troop
Troop (v. i.) To move in numbers; to come or gather in crowds or troops.
Troop (v. i.) To march on; to go forward in haste.
Troopbird (n.) Any troupial.
Trooper (n.) A soldier in a body of cavalry; a cavalryman; also, the horse of a cavalryman.
Troopfowl (n.) The American scaup duck.
Troopial (n.) Same as Troupial.
Troopmeal (adv.) By troops; in crowds.
Troopship (n.) A vessel built or fitted for the conveyance of troops; a transport.
Troostite (n.) Willemite.
Tropaeolin (n.) A name given to any one of a series of orange-red dyestuffs produced artificially from certain complex sulphonic acid derivatives of azo and diazo hydrocarbons of the aromatic series; -- so called because of the general resemblance to the shades of nasturtium (Tropaeolum).
Trope (n.) The use of a word or expression in a different sense from that which properly belongs to it; the use of a word or expression as changed from the original signification to another, for the sake of giving life or emphasis to an idea; a figure of speech.
Trope (n.) The word or expression so used.
Tropeine (n.) Any one of a series of artificial ethereal salts derived from the alkaloidal base tropine.
Trophi (n. pl.) The mouth parts of an insect, collectively, including the labrum, labium, maxillae, mandibles, and lingua, with their appendages.
Trophic (a.) Of or connected with nutrition; nitritional; nourishing; as, the so-called trophic nerves, which have a direct influence on nutrition.
Trophied (a.) Adorned with trophies.
Trophonian (a.) Of or pertaining to Trophonius, his architecture, or his cave and oracle.
Trophosome (n.) The nutritive zooids of a hydroid, collectively, as distinguished from the gonosome, or reproductive zooids.
Trophosperm (n.) The placenta.
Trophies (pl. ) of Trophy
Trophy (n.) A sign or memorial of a victory raised on the field of battle, or, in case of a naval victory, on the nearest land. Sometimes trophies were erected in the chief city of the conquered people.
Trophy (n.) The representation of such a memorial, as on a medal; esp. (Arch.), an ornament representing a group of arms and military weapons, offensive and defensive.
Trophy (n.) Anything taken from an enemy and preserved as a memorial of victory, as arms, flags, standards, etc.
Trophy (n.) Any evidence or memorial of victory or conquest; as, every redeemed soul is a trophy of grace.
Tropic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from atropine and certain other alkaloids, as a white crystalline substance slightly soluble in water.
Tropic (n.) One of the two small circles of the celestial sphere, situated on each side of the equator, at a distance of 23 28/, and parallel to it, which the sun just reaches at its greatest declination north or south, and from which it turns again toward the equator, the northern circle being called the Tropic of Cancer, and the southern the Tropic of Capricorn, from the names of the two signs at which they touch the ecliptic.
Tropic (n.) One of the two parallels of terrestrial latitude corresponding to the celestial tropics, and called by the same names.
Tropic (n.) The region lying between these parallels of latitude, or near them on either side.
Tropic (a.) Of or pertaining to the tropics; tropical.
Tropical (n.) Of or pertaining to the tropics; characteristic of, or incident to, the tropics; being within the tropics; as, tropical climate; tropical latitudes; tropical heat; tropical diseases.
Tropical (n.) Rhetorically changed from its exact original sense; being of the nature of a trope; figurative; metaphorical.
Tropically (adv.) In a tropical manner; figuratively; metaphorically.
Tropidine (n.) An alkaloid, C8H13N, obtained by the chemical dehydration of tropine, as an oily liquid having a coninelike odor.
Tropilidene (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon obtained by the dry distillation of tropine with quicklime. It is regarded as being homologous with dipropargyl.
Tropine (n.) A white crystalline alkaloid, C8H15NO, produced by decomposing atropine.
Tropist (n.) One who deals in tropes; specifically, one who avoids the literal sense of the language of Scripture by explaining it as mere tropes and figures of speech.
Tropologic (a.) Alt. of Tropological
Tropological (a.) Characterized by tropes; varied by tropes; tropical.
Tropologize (v. t.) To use in a tropological sense, as a word; to make a trope of.
Tropology (n.) A rhetorical mode of speech, including tropes, or changes from the original import of the word.
Trossers (n. pl.) Trousers.
Trotted (imp. & p. p.) of Trot
Trotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trot
Trot (v. i.) To proceed by a certain gait peculiar to quadrupeds; to ride or drive at a trot. See Trot, n.
Trot (n.) Fig.: To run; to jog; to hurry.
Trot (v. t.) To cause to move, as a horse or other animal, in the pace called a trot; to cause to run without galloping or cantering.
Trot (v. i.) The pace of a horse or other quadruped, more rapid than a walk, but of various degrees of swiftness, in which one fore foot and the hind foot of the opposite side are lifted at the same time.
Trot (v. i.) Fig.: A jogging pace, as of a person hurrying.
Trot (v. i.) One who trots; a child; a woman.
Troth (n.) Belief; faith; fidelity.
Troth (n.) Truth; verity; veracity; as, by my troth.
Troth (n.) Betrothal.
Trothless (a.) Faitless; false; treacherous.
Trothplight (v. t.) To betroth.
Trothplight (a.) Betrothed; espoused; affianced.
Trothplight (n.) The act of betrothing, or plighting faith; betrothing.
Trothplighted (a.) Having fidelity pledged.
Trotter (n.) One that trots; especially, a horse trained to be driven in trotting matches.
Trotter (n.) The foot of an animal, especially that of a sheep; also, humorously, the human foot.
Trottoir (n.) Footpath; pavement; sidewalk.
Troubadour (n.) One of a school of poets who flourished from the eleventh to the thirteenth century, principally in Provence, in the south of France, and also in the north of Italy. They invented, and especially cultivated, a kind of lyrical poetry characterized by intricacy of meter and rhyme, and usually of a romantic, amatory strain.
Troublable (a.) Causing trouble; troublesome.
Troubled (imp. & p. p.) of Trouble
Troubling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trouble
Trouble (v. t.) To put into confused motion; to disturb; to agitate.
Trouble (v. t.) To disturb; to perplex; to afflict; to distress; to grieve; to fret; to annoy; to vex.
Trouble (v. t.) To give occasion for labor to; -- used in polite phraseology; as, I will not trouble you to deliver the letter.
Trouble (a.) Troubled; dark; gloomy.
Trouble (v. t.) The state of being troubled; disturbance; agitation; uneasiness; vexation; calamity.
Trouble (v. t.) That which gives disturbance, annoyance, or vexation; that which afflicts.
Trouble (v. t.) A fault or interruption in a stratum.
Troubler (n.) One who troubles or disturbs; one who afflicts or molests; a disturber; as, a troubler of the peace.
Troublesome (a.) Giving trouble or anxiety; vexatious; burdensome; wearisome.
Troublous (a.) Full of trouble; causing trouble.
Trous-de-loup (pl. ) of Trou-de-loup
Trou-de-loup (n.) A pit in the form of an inverted cone or pyramid, constructed as an obstacle to the approach of an enemy, and having a pointed stake in the middle. The pits are called also trapholes.
Trough (n.) A long, hollow vessel, generally for holding water or other liquid, especially one formed by excavating a log longitudinally on one side; a long tray; also, a wooden channel for conveying water, as to a mill wheel.
Trough (n.) Any channel, receptacle, or depression, of a long and narrow shape; as, trough between two ridges, etc.
Trough-shell (n.) Any bivalve shell of the genus Mactra. See Mactra.
Troul (v. t. & i.) See Troll.
Trounced (imp. & p. p.) of Trounce
Trouncing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trounce
Trounce (v. t.) To punish or beat severely; to whip smartly; to flog; to castigate.
Troupe (n.) A company or troop, especially the company pf performers in a play or an opera.
Troupial (n.) Any one of numerous species of bright-colored American birds belonging to Icterus and allied genera, especially Icterus icterus, a native of the West Indies and South America. Many of the species are called orioles in America.
Trouse (n.) Trousers.
Trousering (n.) Cloth or material for making trousers.
Trousers (n. pl.) A garment worn by men and boys, extending from the waist to the knee or to the ankle, and covering each leg separately.
Trousseau (n.) The collective lighter equipments or outfit of a bride, including clothes, jewelry, and the like; especially, that which is provided for her by her family.
Trout (n.) Any one of numerous species of fishes belonging to Salmo, Salvelinus, and allied genera of the family Salmonidae. They are highly esteemed as game fishes and for the quality of their flesh. All the species breed in fresh water, but after spawning many of them descend to the sea if they have an opportunity.
Trout (n.) Any one of several species of marine fishes more or less resembling a trout in appearance or habits, but not belonging to the same family, especially the California rock trouts, the common squeteague, and the southern, or spotted, squeteague; -- called also salt-water trout, sea trout, shad trout, and gray trout. See Squeteague, and Rock trout under Rock.
Troutbird (n.) The American golden plover.
Trout-colored (a.) White, with spots of black, bay, or sorrel; as, a trout-colored horse.
Troutlet (n.) A little trout; a troutling.
Troutling (n.) A little trout; a troutlet.
Trouvere (n.) Alt. of Trouveur
Trouveur (n.) One of a school of poets who flourished in Northern France from the eleventh to the fourteenth century.
Trover (n.) The gaining possession of any goods, whether by finding or by other means.
Trover (n.) An action to recover damages against one who found goods, and would not deliver them to the owner on demand; an action which lies in any case to recover the value of goods wrongfully converted by another to his own use. In this case the finding, though alleged, is an immaterial fact; the injury lies in the conversion.
Trow (n.) A boat with an open well amidships. It is used in spearing fish.
Trow (v. i. & t.) To believe; to trust; to think or suppose.
Trowel (n.) A mason's tool, used in spreading and dressing mortar, and breaking bricks to shape them.
Trowel (n.) A gardener's tool, somewhat like a scoop, used in taking up plants, stirring the earth, etc.
Trowel (n.) A tool used for smoothing a mold.
Troweled () Formed with a trowel; smoothed with a trowel; as, troweled stucco, that is, stucco laid on and ready for the reception of paint.
Trowelfuls (pl. ) of Trowelful
Trowelful (n.) As much as a trowel will hold; enough to fill a trowel.
Trowl (n.) See Troll.
Trowsed (a.) Wearing trousers.
Trowsers (n. pl.) Same as Trousers.
Troy (n.) Troy weight.
Troyounce (n.) See Troy ounce, under Troy weight, above, and under Ounce.
Truage (n.) A pledge of truth or peace made on payment of a tax.
Truage (n.) A tax or impost; tribute.
Truancy (n.) The act of playing truant, or the state of being truant; as, addicted to truancy.
Truand (n. & a.) See Truant.
Truant (n.) One who stays away from business or any duty; especially, one who stays out of school without leave; an idler; a loiterer; a shirk.
Truant (a.) Wandering from business or duty; loitering; idle, and shirking duty; as, a truant boy.
Truant (v. i.) To idle away time; to loiter, or wander; to play the truant.
Truant (v. t.) To idle away; to waste.
Truantly (adv.) Like a truant; in idleness.
Truantship (n.) The conduct of a truant; neglect of employment; idleness; truancy.
Trub (n.) A truffle.
Trubtall (n.) A short, squat woman.
Trubu (n.) An East India herring (Clupea toli) which is extensively caught for the sake of its roe and for its flesh.
Truce (n.) A suspension of arms by agreement of the commanders of opposing forces; a temporary cessation of hostilities, for negotiation or other purpose; an armistice.
Truce (n.) Hence, intermission of action, pain, or contest; temporary cessation; short quiet.
Trucebreaker (n.) One who violates a truce, covenant, or engagement.
Truceless (a.) Without a truce; unforbearing.
Truchman (n.) An interpreter. See Dragoman.
Trucidation (n.) The act of killing.
Truck (v. i.) A small wheel, as of a vehicle; specifically (Ord.), a small strong wheel, as of wood or iron, for a gun carriage.
Truck (v. i.) A low, wheeled vehicle or barrow for carrying goods, stone, and other heavy articles.
Truck (v. i.) A swiveling carriage, consisting of a frame with one or more pairs of wheels and the necessary boxes, springs, etc., to carry and guide one end of a locomotive or a car; -- sometimes called bogie in England. Trucks usually have four or six wheels.
Truck (v. i.) A small wooden cap at the summit of a flagstaff or a masthead, having holes in it for reeving halyards through.
Truck (v. i.) A small piece of wood, usually cylindrical or disk-shaped, used for various purposes.
Truck (v. i.) A freight car.
Truck (v. i.) A frame on low wheels or rollers; -- used for various purposes, as for a movable support for heavy bodies.
Truck (v. t.) To transport on a truck or trucks.
Trucked (imp. & p. p.) of Truck
trucking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Truck
Truck (v. t.) To exchange; to give in exchange; to barter; as, to truck knives for gold dust.
Truck (v. i.) To exchange commodities; to barter; to trade; to deal.
Truck (n.) Exchange of commodities; barter.
Truck (n.) Commodities appropriate for barter, or for small trade; small commodities; esp., in the United States, garden vegetables raised for the market.
Truck (n.) The practice of paying wages in goods instead of money; -- called also truck system.
Truckage (n.) The practice of bartering goods; exchange; barter; truck.
Truckage (n.) Money paid for the conveyance of goods on a truck; freight.
Trucker (n.) One who trucks; a trafficker.
Trucking (n.) The business of conveying goods on trucks.
Truckle (n.) A small wheel or caster.
Truckle (v. i.) To yield or bend obsequiously to the will of another; to submit; to creep.
Truckled (imp. & p. p.) of Truckle
Truckling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Truckle
Truckle (v. t.) To roll or move upon truckles, or casters; to trundle.
Truckle-bed (n.) A low bed on wheels, that may be pushed under another bed; a trundle-bed.
Truckler (n.) One who truckles, or yields servilely to the will of another.
Truckmen (pl. ) of Truckman
Truckman (n.) One who does business in the way of barter or exchange.
Truckman (n.) One who drives a truck, or whose business is the conveyance of goods on trucks.
Truculence (n.) Alt. of Truculency
Truculency (n.) The quality or state of being truculent; savageness of manners; ferociousness.
Truculent (a.) Fierce; savage; ferocious; barbarous; as, the truculent inhabitants of Scythia.
Truculent (a.) Cruel; destructive; ruthless.
Truculently (adv.) In a truculent manner.
Trudged (imp. & p. p.) of Trudge
Trudging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trudge
Trudge (v. i.) To walk or march with labor; to jog along; to move wearily.
Trudgeman (n.) A truchman.
True (n.) Conformable to fact; in accordance with the actual state of things; correct; not false, erroneous, inaccurate, or the like; as, a true relation or narration; a true history; a declaration is true when it states the facts.
True (n.) Right to precision; conformable to a rule or pattern; exact; accurate; as, a true copy; a true likeness of the original.
True (n.) Steady in adhering to friends, to promises, to a prince, or the like; unwavering; faithful; loyal; not false, fickle, or perfidious; as, a true friend; a wife true to her husband; an officer true to his charge.
True (n.) Actual; not counterfeit, adulterated, or pretended; genuine; pure; real; as, true balsam; true love of country; a true Christian.
True (adv.) In accordance with truth; truly.
True-blue (a.) Of inflexible honesty and fidelity; -- a term derived from the true, or Coventry, blue, formerly celebrated for its unchanging color. See True blue, under Blue.
True-blue (n.) A person of inflexible integrity or fidelity.
True-born (a.) Of genuine birth; having a right by birth to any title; as, a true-born Englishman.
True-bred (a.) Of a genuine or right breed; as, a true-bred beast.
True-bred (a.) Being of real breeding or education; as, a true-bred gentleman.
True-hearted (a.) Of a faithful heart; honest; sincere; not faithless or deceitful; as, a truhearted friend.
Truelove (n.) One really beloved.
Truelove (n.) A plant. See Paris.
Truelove (n.) An unexplained word occurring in Chaucer, meaning, perhaps, an aromatic sweetmeat for sweetening the breath.
Trueness (n.) The quality of being true; reality; genuineness; faithfulness; sincerity; exactness; truth.
True-penny (n.) An honest fellow.
Truffle (n.) Any one of several kinds of roundish, subterranean fungi, usually of a blackish color. The French truffle (Tuber melanosporum) and the English truffle (T. aestivum) are much esteemed as articles of food.
Truffled (a.) Provided or cooked with truffles; stuffed with truffles; as, a truffled turkey.
Trug (n.) A trough, or tray.
Trug (n.) A hod for mortar.
Trug (n.) An old measure of wheat equal to two thirds of a bushel.
Trug (n.) A concubine; a harlot.
Trugging-house (n.) A brothel.
Truism (n.) An undoubted or self-evident truth; a statement which is pliantly true; a proposition needing no proof or argument; -- opposed to falsism.
Truismatic (a.) Of or pertaining to truisms; consisting of truisms.
Trull (n.) A drab; a strumpet; a harlot; a trollop.
Trull (n.) A girl; a wench; a lass.
Trullization (n.) The act of laying on coats of plaster with a trowel.
Truly (adv.) In a true manner; according to truth; in agreement with fact; as, to state things truly; the facts are truly represented.
Truly (adv.) Exactly; justly; precisely; accurately; as, to estimate truly the weight of evidence.
Truly (adv.) Sincerely; honestly; really; faithfully; as, to be truly attached to a lover; the citizens are truly loyal to their prince or their country.
Truly (adv.) Conformably to law; legally; legitimately.
Truly (adv.) In fact; in deed; in reality; in truth.
Trump (n.) A wind instrument of music; a trumpet, or sound of a trumpet; -- used chiefly in Scripture and poetry.
Trump (v. i.) To blow a trumpet.
Trump (n.) A winning card; one of a particular suit (usually determined by chance for each deal) any card of which takes any card of the other suits.
Trump (n.) An old game with cards, nearly the same as whist; -- called also ruff.
Trump (n.) A good fellow; an excellent person.
Trumped (imp. & p. p.) of Trump
Trumping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trump
Trump (v. i.) To play a trump card when one of another suit has been led.
Trump (v. t.) To play a trump card upon; to take with a trump card; as, she trumped the first trick.
Trump (v. t.) To trick, or impose on; to deceive.
Trump (v. t.) To impose unfairly; to palm off.
Trumpery (n.) Deceit; fraud.
Trumpery (n.) Something serving to deceive by false show or pretense; falsehood; deceit; worthless but showy matter; hence, things worn out and of no value; rubbish.
Trumpery (a.) Worthless or deceptive in character.
Trumpet (n.) A wind instrument of great antiquity, much used in war and military exercises, and of great value in the orchestra. In consists of a long metallic tube, curved (once or twice) into a convenient shape, and ending in a bell. Its scale in the lower octaves is limited to the first natural harmonics; but there are modern trumpets capable, by means of valves or pistons, of producing every tone within their compass, although at the expense of the true ringing quality of tone.
Trumpet (n.) A trumpeter.
Trumpet (n.) One who praises, or propagates praise, or is the instrument of propagating it.
Trumpet (n.) A funnel, or short, fiaring pipe, used as a guide or conductor, as for yarn in a knitting machine.
Trumpeted (imp. & p. p.) of Trumpet
Trumpeting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trumpet
Trumpet (v. t.) To publish by, or as by, sound of trumpet; to noise abroad; to proclaim; as, to trumpet good tidings.
Trumpet (v. i.) To sound loudly, or with a tone like a trumpet; to utter a trumplike cry.
Trumpeter (n.) One who sounds a trumpet.
Trumpeter (n.) One who proclaims, publishes, or denounces.
Trumpeter (n.) Any one of several species of long-legged South American birds of the genus Psophia, especially P. crepitans, which is abundant, and often domesticated and kept with other poultry by the natives. They are allied to the cranes. So called from their loud cry. Called also agami, and yakamik.
Trumpeter (n.) A variety of the domestic pigeon.
Trumpeter (n.) An American swan (Olor buccinator) which has a very loud note.
Trumpeter (n.) A large edible fish (Latris hecateia) of the family Cirrhitidae, native of Tasmania and New Zealand. It sometimes weighs as much as fifty or sixty pounds, and is highly esteemed as a food fish.
Trumpeting (n.) A channel cut behind the brick lining of a shaft.
Trumpets (n. pl.) A plant (Sarracenia flava) with long, hollow leaves.
Trumpet-shaped (a.) Tubular with one end dilated, as the flower of the trumpet creeper.
Trumpet-tongued (a.) Having a powerful, far-reaching voice or speech.
Trumpetweed (n.) An herbaceous composite plant (Eupatorium purpureum), often having hollow stems, and bearing purplish flowers in small corymbed heads.
Trumpetweed (n.) The sea trumpet.
Trumpetwood (n.) A tropical American tree (Cecropia peltata) of the Breadfruit family, having hollow stems, which are used for wind instruments; -- called also snakewood, and trumpet tree.
Trumpie (n.) The Richardson's skua (Stercorarius parasiticus).
Trumplike (a.) Resembling a trumpet, esp. in sound; as, a trumplike voice.
Truncal (a.) Of or pertaining to the trunk, or body.
Truncated (imp. & p. p.) of Truncate
Truncating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Truncate
Truncate (v. t.) To cut off; to lop; to maim.
Truncate (a.) Appearing as if cut off at the tip; as, a truncate leaf or feather.
Truncated (a.) Cut off; cut short; maimed.
Truncated (a.) Replaced, or cut off, by a plane, especially when equally inclined to the adjoining faces; as, a truncated edge.
Truncated (a.) Lacking the apex; -- said of certain spiral shells in which the apex naturally drops off.
Truncation (n.) The act of truncating, lopping, or cutting off.
Truncation (n.) The state of being truncated.
Truncation (n.) The replacement of an edge or solid angle by a plane, especially when the plane is equally inclined to the adjoining faces.
Trunch (n.) A stake; a small post.
Truncheon (n.) A short staff, a club; a cudgel; a shaft of a spear.
Truncheon (n.) A baton, or military staff of command.
Truncheon (n.) A stout stem, as of a tree, with the branches lopped off, to produce rapid growth.
Truncheon (v. t.) To beat with a truncheon.
Truncheoned (a.) Having a truncheon.
Truncheoneer (n.) A person armed with a truncheon.
Truncus (n.) The thorax of an insect. See Trunk, n., 5.
Trundle (v. i.) A round body; a little wheel.
Trundle (v. i.) A lind of low-wheeled cart; a truck.
Trundle (v. i.) A motion as of something moving upon little wheels or rollers; a rolling motion.
Trundle (v. i.) A lantern wheel. See under Lantern.
Trundle (v. i.) One of the bars of a lantern wheel.
Trundled (imp. & p. p.) of Trundle
Trundling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trundle
Trundle (v. t.) To roll (a thing) on little wheels; as, to trundle a bed or a gun carriage.
Trundle (v. t.) To cause to roll or revolve; to roll along; as, to trundle a hoop or a ball.
Trundle (v. i.) To go or move on small wheels; as, a bed trundles under another.
Trundle (v. i.) To roll, or go by revolving, as a hoop.
Trundle-bed (n.) A low bed that is moved on trundles, or little wheels, so that it can be pushed under a higher bed; a truckle-bed; also, sometimes, a simiral bed without wheels.
Trundlehead (n.) One of the disks forming the ends of a lantern wheel or pinion.
Trundlehead (n.) The drumhead of a capstan; especially, the drumhead of the lower of two capstans on the sane axis.
Trundletail (n.) A round or curled-up tail; also, a dog with such a tail.
Trunk (n.) The stem, or body, of a tree, apart from its limbs and roots; the main stem, without the branches; stock; stalk.
Trunk (n.) The body of an animal, apart from the head and limbs.
Trunk (n.) The main body of anything; as, the trunk of a vein or of an artery, as distinct from the branches.
Trunk (n.) That part of a pilaster which is between the base and the capital, corresponding to the shaft of a column.
Trunk (n.) That segment of the body of an insect which is between the head and abdomen, and bears the wings and legs; the thorax; the truncus.
Trunk (n.) The proboscis of an elephant.
Trunk (n.) The proboscis of an insect.
Trunk (n.) A long tube through which pellets of clay, p/as, etc., are driven by the force of the breath.
Trunk (n.) A box or chest usually covered with leather, metal, or cloth, or sometimes made of leather, hide, or metal, for containing clothes or other goods; especially, one used to convey the effects of a traveler.
Trunk (n.) A flume or sluice in which ores are separated from the slimes in which they are contained.
Trunk (n.) A large pipe forming the piston rod of a steam engine, of sufficient diameter to allow one end of the connecting rod to be attached to the crank, and the other end to pass within the pipe directly to the piston, thus making the engine more compact.
Trunk (n.) A long, large box, pipe, or conductor, made of plank or metal plates, for various uses, as for conveying air to a mine or to a furnace, water to a mill, grain to an elevator, etc.
Trunk (v. t.) To lop off; to curtail; to truncate; to maim.
Trunk (v. t.) To extract (ores) from the slimes in which they are contained, by means of a trunk. See Trunk, n., 9.
Trunkback (n.) The leatherback.
Trunked (a.) Having (such) a trunk.
Trunkfish (n.) Any one of several species of plectognath fishes, belonging to the genus Ostracion, or the family Ostraciontidae, having an angular body covered with a rigid integument consisting of bony scales. Some of the species are called also coffer fish, and boxfish.
Trunkfuls (pl. ) of Trunkful
Trunkful (n.) As much as a trunk will hold; enough to fill a trunk.
Trunkwork (n.) Work or devices suitable to be concealed; a secret stratagem.
Trunnel (n.) A trundle.
Trunnel (n.) See Treenail.
Trunnion (n.) A cylindrical projection on each side of a piece, whether gun, mortar, or howitzer, serving to support it on the cheeks of the carriage. See Illust. of Cannon.
Trunnion (n.) A gudgeon on each side of an oscillating steam cylinder, to support it. It is usually tubular, to convey steam.
Trunnioned (a.) Provided with trunnions; as, the trunnioned cylinder of an oscillating steam engine.
Trusion (n.) The act of pushing or thrusting.
Truss (n.) A bundle; a package; as, a truss of grass.
Truss (n.) A padded jacket or dress worn under armor, to protect the body from the effects of friction; also, a part of a woman's dress; a stomacher.
Truss (n.) A bandage or apparatus used in cases of hernia, to keep up the reduced parts and hinder further protrusion, and for other purposes.
Truss (n.) A tuft of flowers formed at the top of the main stalk, or stem, of certain plants.
Truss (n.) The rope or iron used to keep the center of a yard to the mast.
Truss (n.) An assemblage of members of wood or metal, supported at two points, and arranged to transmit pressure vertically to those points, with the least possible strain across the length of any member. Architectural trusses when left visible, as in open timber roofs, often contain members not needed for construction, or are built with greater massiveness than is requisite, or are composed in unscientific ways in accordance with the exigencies of style.
Trussed (imp. & p. p.) of Truss
Trussing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Truss
Truss (n.) To bind or pack close; to make into a truss.
Truss (n.) To take fast hold of; to seize and hold firmly; to pounce upon.
Truss (n.) To strengthen or stiffen, as a beam or girder, by means of a brace or braces.
Truss (n.) To skewer; to make fast, as the wings of a fowl to the body in cooking it.
Truss (n.) To execute by hanging; to hang; -- usually with up.
Trussing (n.) The timbers, etc., which form a truss, taken collectively.
Trussing (n.) The art of stiffening or bracing a set of timbers, or the like, by putting in struts, ties, etc., till it has something of the character of a truss.
Trussing (n.) The act of a hawk, or other bird of prey, in seizing its quarry, and soaring with it into air.
Trust (n.) Assured resting of the mind on the integrity, veracity, justice, friendship, or other sound principle, of another person; confidence; reliance; reliance.
Trust (n.) Credit given; especially, delivery of property or merchandise in reliance upon future payment; exchange without immediate receipt of an equivalent; as, to sell or buy goods on trust.
Trust (n.) Assured anticipation; dependence upon something future or contingent, as if present or actual; hope; belief.
Trust (n.) That which is committed or intrusted to one; something received in confidence; charge; deposit.
Trust (n.) The condition or obligation of one to whom anything is confided; responsible charge or office.
Trust (n.) That upon which confidence is reposed; ground of reliance; hope.
Trust (n.) An estate devised or granted in confidence that the devisee or grantee shall convey it, or dispose of the profits, at the will, or for the benefit, of another; an estate held for the use of another; a confidence respecting property reposed in one person, who is termed the trustee, for the benefit of another, who is called the cestui que trust.
Trust (n.) An organization formed mainly for the purpose of regulating the supply and price of commodities, etc.; as, a sugar trust.
Trust (a.) Held in trust; as, trust property; trustmoney.
Trusted (imp. & p. p.) of Trust
Trusting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Trust
Trust (n.) To place confidence in; to rely on, to confide, or repose faith, in; as, we can not trust those who have deceived us.
Trust (n.) To give credence to; to believe; to credit.
Trust (n.) To hope confidently; to believe; -- usually with a phrase or infinitive clause as the object.
Trust (n.) to show confidence in a person by intrusting (him) with something.
Trust (n.) To commit, as to one's care; to intrust.
Trust (n.) To give credit to; to sell to upon credit, or in confidence of future payment; as, merchants and manufacturers trust their customers annually with goods.
Trust (n.) To risk; to venture confidently.
Trust (v. i.) To have trust; to be credulous; to be won to confidence; to confide.
Trust (v. i.) To be confident, as of something future; to hope.
Trust (v. i.) To sell or deliver anything in reliance upon a promise of payment; to give credit.
Trustee (n.) A person to whom property is legally committed in trust, to be applied either for the benefit of specified individuals, or for public uses; one who is intrusted with property for the benefit of another; also, a person in whose hands the effects of another are attached in a trustee process.
Trustee (v. t.) To commit (property) to the care of a trustee; as, to trustee an estate.
Trustee (v. t.) To attach (a debtor's wages, credits, or property in the hands of a third person) in the interest of the creditor.
Trusteeship (n.) The office or duty of a trustee.
Truster (n.) One who trusts, or credits.
Truster (n.) One who makes a trust; -- the correlative of trustee.
Trustful (a.) Full of trust; trusting.
Trustful (a.) Worthy of trust; faithful; trusty; trustworthy.
Trustily (adv.) In a trusty manner.
Trustiness (n.) The quality or state of being trusty.
Trusting (a.) Having or exercising trust; confiding; unsuspecting; trustful.
Trustless (a.) That may not be trusted; not worthy of trust; unfaithful.
Trustworthy (a.) Worthy of trust or confidence; trusty.
Trusty (superl.) Admitting of being safely trusted; justly deserving confidence; fit to be confided in; trustworthy; reliable.
Trusty (superl.) Hence, not liable to fail; strong; firm.
Trusty (superl.) Involving trust; as, a trusty business.
Truths (pl. ) of Truth
Truth (n.) The quality or being true; as: -- (a) Conformity to fact or reality; exact accordance with that which is, or has been; or shall be.
Truth (n.) Conformity to rule; exactness; close correspondence with an example, mood, object of imitation, or the like.
Truth (n.) Fidelity; constancy; steadfastness; faithfulness.
Truth (n.) The practice of speaking what is true; freedom from falsehood; veracity.
Truth (n.) That which is true or certain concerning any matter or subject, or generally on all subjects; real state of things; fact; verity; reality.
Truth (n.) A true thing; a verified fact; a true statement or proposition; an established principle, fixed law, or the like; as, the great truths of morals.
Truth (n.) Righteousness; true religion.
Truth (v. t.) To assert as true; to declare.
Truthful (a.) Full of truth; veracious; reliable.
Truthless (a.) Devoid of truth; dishonest; dishonest; spurious; faithless.
Truth-lover (n.) One who loves the truth.
Truthness (n.) Truth.
Truth-teller (n.) One who tells the truth.
Truthy (a.) Truthful; likely; probable.
Trutination (n.) The act of weighing.
Truttaceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a trout; as, fish of the truttaceous kind.
tried (imp. & p. p.) of Try
Trying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Try
Try (v. t.) To divide or separate, as one sort from another; to winnow; to sift; to pick out; -- frequently followed by out; as, to try out the wild corn from the good.
Try (v. t.) To purify or refine, as metals; to melt out, and procure in a pure state, as oil, tallow, lard, etc.
Try (v. t.) To prove by experiment; to apply a test to, for the purpose of determining the quality; to examine; to prove; to test; as, to try weights or measures by a standard; to try a man's opinions.
Try (v. t.) To subject to severe trial; to put to the test; to cause suffering or trouble to.
Try (v. t.) To experiment with; to test by use; as, to try a remedy for disease; to try a horse.
Try (v. t.) To strain; to subject to excessive tests; as, the light tries his eyes; repeated disappointments try one's patience.
Try (v. t.) To examine or investigate judicially; to examine by witnesses or other judicial evidence and the principles of law; as, to try a cause, or a criminal.
Try (v. t.) To settle; to decide; to determine; specifically, to decide by an appeal to arms; as, to try rival claims by a duel; to try conclusions.
Try (v. t.) To experience; to have or gain knowledge of by experience.
Try (v. t.) To essay; to attempt; to endeavor.
Try (v. i.) To exert strength; to endeavor; to make an effort or an attempt; as, you must try hard if you wish to learn.
Try (v. i.) To do; to fare; as, how do you try!
Try (n.) A screen, or sieve, for grain.
Try (n.) Act of trying; attempt; experiment; trial.
Try (v. t.) Refined; select; excellent; choice.
Trygon (n.) Any one of several species of large sting rays belonging to Trygon and allied genera.
Trying (a.) Adapted to try, or put to severe trial; severe; afflictive; as, a trying occasion or position.
Trypsin (n.) A proteolytic ferment, or enzyme, present in the pancreatic juice. Unlike the pepsin of the gastric juice, it acts in a neutral or alkaline fluid, and not only converts the albuminous matter of the food into soluble peptones, but also, in part, into leucin and tyrosin.
Trypsinogen (n.) The antecedent of trypsin, a substance which is contained in the cells of the pancreas and gives rise to the trypsin.
Tryptic (a.) Relating to trypsin or to its action; produced by trypsin; as, trypsin digestion.
Tryptone (n.) The peptone formed by pancreatic digestion; -- so called because it is formed through the agency of the ferment trypsin.
Trysail (n.) A fore-and-aft sail, bent to a gaff, and hoisted on a lower mast or on a small mast, called the trysail mast, close abaft a lower mast; -- used chiefly as a storm sail. Called also spencer.
Try-square (n.) An instrument used by carpenters, joiners, etc., for laying off right angles off right angles, and testing whether work is square.
Tryst (n.) Trust.
Tryst (n.) An appointment to meet; also, an appointed place or time of meeting; as, to keep tryst; to break tryst.
Tryst (n.) To trust.
Tryst (n.) To agree with to meet at a certain place; to make an appointment with.
Tryst (v. i.) To mutually agree to meet at a certain place.
Tryster (n.) One who makes an appointment, or tryst; one who meets with another.
Trysting (n.) An appointment; a tryst.
Tsar (n.) The title of the emperor of Russia. See Czar.
Tsarina (n.) Alt. of Tsaritsa
Tsaritsa (n.) The title of the empress of Russia. See Czarina.
Tschakmeck (n.) The chameck.
Tschego (n.) A West African anthropoid ape allied to the gorilla and chimpanzee, and by some considered only a variety of the chimpanzee. It is noted for building large, umbrella-shaped nests in trees. Called also tscheigo, tschiego, nschego, nscheigo.
Tsebe (n.) The springbok.
Tsetse (n.) A venomous two-winged African fly (Glossina morsitans) whose bite is very poisonous, and even fatal, to horses and cattle, but harmless to men. It renders extensive districts in which it abounds uninhabitable during certain seasons of the year.
T square () See under T.
Tuatera (n.) See Hatteria.
Tub (n.) An open wooden vessel formed with staves, bottom, and hoops; a kind of short cask, half barrel, or firkin, usually with but one head, -- used for various purposes.
Tub (n.) The amount which a tub contains, as a measure of quantity; as, a tub of butter; a tub of camphor, which is about 1 cwt., etc.
Tub (n.) Any structure shaped like a tub: as, a certain old form of pulpit; a short, broad boat, etc., -- often used jocosely or opprobriously.
Tub (n.) A sweating in a tub; a tub fast.
Tub (n.) A small cask; as, a tub of gin.
Tub (n.) A box or bucket in which coal or ore is sent up a shaft; -- so called by miners.
Tubbed (imp. & p. p.) of Tub
Tubbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tub
Tub (v. t.) To plant or set in a tub; as, to tub a plant.
Tub (i.) To make use of a bathing tub; to lie or be in a bath; to bathe.
Tuba (n.) An ancient trumpet.
Tuba (n.) A sax-tuba. See Sax-tuba.
Tubal (a.) Of or pertaining to a tube; specifically, of or pertaining to one of the Fallopian tubes; as, tubal pregnancy.
Tubbing (n.) The forming of a tub; also, collectively, materials for tubs.
Tubbing (n.) A lining of timber or metal around the shaft of a mine; especially, a series of cast-iron cylinders bolted together, used to enable those who sink a shaft to penetrate quicksand, water, etc., with safety.
Tubby (a.) Resembling a tub; specifically sounding dull and without resonance, like a tub; wanting elasticity or freedom of sound; as, a tubby violin.
Tube (n.) A hollow cylinder, of any material, used for the conveyance of fluids, and for various other purposes; a pipe.
Tube (n.) A telescope.
Tube (n.) A vessel in animal bodies or plants, which conveys a fluid or other substance.
Tube (n.) The narrow, hollow part of a gamopetalous corolla.
Tube (n.) A priming tube, or friction primer. See under Priming, and Friction.
Tube (n.) A small pipe forming part of the boiler, containing water and surrounded by flame or hot gases, or else surrounded by water and forming a flue for the gases to pass through.
Tube (n.) A more or less cylindrical, and often spiral, case secreted or constructed by many annelids, crustaceans, insects, and other animals, for protection or concealment. See Illust. of Tubeworm.
Tube (n.) One of the siphons of a bivalve mollusk.
Tubed (imp. & p. p.) of Tube
Tubing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tube
Tube (v. t.) To furnish with a tube; as, to tube a well.
Tubeform (a.) In the form of a tube; tubular; tubiform.
Tube-nosed (a.) Having the nostrils prolonged in the form of horny tubes along the sides of the beak; -- said of certain sea birds.
Tube-nosed (a.) Belonging to the Tubinares.
Tuber (n.) A fleshy, rounded stem or root, usually containing starchy matter, as the potato or arrowroot; a thickened root-stock. See Illust. of Tuberous.
Tuber (n.) A genus of fungi. See Truffle.
Tuber (n.) A tuberosity; a tubercle.
Tubercle (n.) A small knoblike prominence or excrescence, whether natural or morbid; as, a tubercle on a plant; a tubercle on a bone; the tubercles appearing on the body in leprosy.
Tubercle (n.) A small mass or aggregation of morbid matter; especially, the deposit which accompanies scrofula or phthisis. This is composed of a hard, grayish, or yellowish, translucent or opaque matter, which gradually softens, and excites suppuration in its vicinity. It is most frequently found in the lungs, causing consumption.
Tubercled (a.) Having tubercles; affected with, tubercles; tuberculate; as, a tubercled lung or stalk.
Tubercular (a.) Having tubercles; affected with tubercles; tubercled; tuberculate.
Tubercular (a.) Like a tubercle; as, a tubercular excrescence.
Tubercular (a.) Characterized by the development of tubercles; as, tubercular diathesis.
Tuberculate (a.) Alt. of Tuberculated
Tuberculated (a.) Tubercled; tubercular.
Tuberculin (n.) A fluid containing the products formed by the growth of the tubercle bacillus in a suitable culture medium.
Tuberculization (n.) The development of tubercles; the condition of one who is affected with tubercles.
Tuberculose (a.) Alt. of Tuberculous
Tuberculous (a.) Having tubercles; affected with, or characterized by, tubercles; tubercular.
Tuberculosis (n.) A constitutional disease characterized by the production of tubercles in the internal organs, and especially in the lungs, where it constitutes the most common variety of pulmonary consumption.
Tubercula (pl. ) of Tuberculum
Tuberculum (n.) A tubercle.
Tuberiferous (a.) Producing or bearing tubers.
Tuberose (n.) A plant (Polianthes tuberosa) with a tuberous root and a liliaceous flower. It is much cultivated for its beautiful and fragrant white blossoms.
Tuberose (a.) Tuberous.
Tuberosities (pl. ) of Tuberosity
Tuberosity (n.) The state of being tuberous.
Tuberosity (n.) An obtuse or knoblike prominence; a protuberance.
Tuberous (a.) Covered with knobby or wartlike prominences; knobbed.
Tuberous (a.) Consisting of, or bearing, tubers; resembling a tuber.
Tube-shell (n.) Any bivalve mollusk which secretes a shelly tube around its siphon, as the watering-shell.
Tubeworm (n.) Any annelid which constructs a tube; one of the Tubicolae.
Tubfish (n.) The sapphirine gurnard (Trigla hirundo). See Illust. under Gurnard.
Tubfuls (pl. ) of Tubful
Tubful (n.) As much as a tub will hold; enough to fill a tub.
Tubicinate (v. i.) To blow a trumpet.
Tubicolae (n. pl.) A division of annelids including those which construct, and habitually live in, tubes. The head or anterior segments usually bear gills and cirri. Called also Sedentaria, and Capitibranchiata. See Serpula, and Sabella.
Tubicolar (a.) Tubicolous.
Tubicole (n.) One of the Tubicolae.
Tubicolous (a.) Inhabiting a tube; as, tubicolous worms.
Tubicorn (n.) Any ruminant having horns composed of a bony axis covered with a horny sheath; a hollow-horned ruminant.
Tubicornous (a.) Having hollow horns.
Tubiform (a.) Having the form of a tube; tubeform.
Tubinares (n. pl.) A tribe of sea birds comprising the petrels, shearwaters, albatrosses, hagdons, and allied birds having tubular horny nostrils.
Tubing (n.) The act of making tubes.
Tubing (n.) A series of tubes; tubes, collectively; a length or piece of a tube; material for tubes; as, leather tubing.
Tubipora (n.) A genus of halcyonoids in which the skeleton, or coral (called organ-pipe coral), consists of a mass of parallel cylindrical tubes united at intervals by transverse plates. These corals are usually red or purple and form large masses. They are natives of the tropical parts of the Indian and Pacific Oceans.
Tubipore (n.) Any species of the genus Tubipora.
Tubiporite (n.) Any fossil coral of the genus Syringopora consisting of a cluster of upright tubes united together by small transverse tubules.
Tubivalve (n.) A shell or tube formed by an annelid, as a serpula.
Tubmen (pl. ) of Tubman
Tubman (n.) One of the two most experienced barristers in the Court of Exchequer. Cf. Postman, 2.
Tubular (a.) Having the form of a tube, or pipe; consisting of a pipe; fistular; as, a tubular snout; a tubular calyx. Also, containing, or provided with, tubes.
Tubularia (n.) A genus of hydroids having large, naked, flowerlike hydranths at the summits of long, slender, usually simple, stems. The gonophores are small, and form clusters at the bases of the outer tentacles.
Tubulariae (n. pl.) See Tubularida.
Tubularian (n.) Any hydroid belonging to the suborder Tubularida.
Tubularian (a.) Of or pertaining to the tubularians.
Tubularida (n. pl.) An extensive division of Hydroidea; the tubularians; -- called also Athecata, Gymnoblastea, and Tubulariae.
Tubulate (a.) Tubular; tubulated; tubulous.
Tubulated (a.) Made in the form of a small tube; provided with a tube, or elongated opening.
Tubulation (n.) The act of shaping or making a tube, or of providing with a tube; also, a tube or tubulure; as, the tubulation of a retort.
Tubulature (n.) A tubulure.
Tubule (n.) A small pipe or fistular body; a little tube.
Tubule (n.) A minute tube lined with glandular epithelium; as, the uriniferous tubules of the kidney.
Tubulibranchian (n.) One of the Tubulibranchiata.
Tubulibranchiata (n. pl.) A group of gastropod mollusks having a tubular shell. Vermetus is an example.
Tubulicole (n.) Any hydroid which has tubular chitinous stems.
Tubulidentate (a.) Having teeth traversed by canals; -- said of certain edentates.
Tubuliform (a.) Having the form of a small tube.
Tubulipore (n.) Any one of numerous species of Bryozoa belonging to Tubulipora and allied genera, having tubular calcareous calicles.
Tubulose (a.) Alt. of Tubulous
Tubulous (a.) Resembling, or in the form of, a tube; longitudinally hollow; specifically (Bot.), having a hollow cylindrical corolla, often expanded or toothed at the border; as, a tubulose flower.
Tubulous (a.) Containing, or consisting of, small tubes; specifically (Bot.), composed wholly of tubulous florets; as, a tubulous compound flower.
Tubulure (n.) A short tubular opening at the top of a retort, or at the top or side of a bottle; a tubulation.
Tucan (n.) The Mexican pocket gopher (Geomys Mexicanus). It resembles the common pocket gopher of the Western United States, but is larger. Called also tugan, and tuza.
Tucet (n.) See Tucket, a steak.
Tuch (n.) A dark-colored kind of marble; touchstone.
Tuck (n.) A long, narrow sword; a rapier.
Tuck (n.) The beat of a drum.
Tucked (imp. & p. p.) of Tuck
Tucking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tuck
Tuck (v. t.) To draw up; to shorten; to fold under; to press into a narrower compass; as, to tuck the bedclothes in; to tuck up one's sleeves.
Tuck (v. t.) To make a tuck or tucks in; as, to tuck a dress.
Tuck (v. t.) To inclose; to put within; to press into a close place; as, to tuck a child into a bed; to tuck a book under one's arm, or into a pocket.
Tuck (v. t.) To full, as cloth.
Tuck (v. i.) To contract; to draw together.
Tuck (n.) A horizontal sewed fold, such as is made in a garment, to shorten it; a plait.
Tuck (n.) A small net used for taking fish from a larger one; -- called also tuck-net.
Tuck (n.) A pull; a lugging.
Tuck (n.) The part of a vessel where the ends of the bottom planks meet under the stern.
Tuck (n.) Food; pastry; sweetmeats.
Tuckahoe (n.) A curious vegetable production of the Southern Atlantic United States, growing under ground like a truffle and often attaining immense size. The real nature is unknown. Called also Indian bread, and Indian loaf.
Tucker (n.) One who, or that which, tucks; specifically, an instrument with which tuck are made.
Tucker (n.) A narrow piece of linen or the like, folded across the breast, or attached to the gown at the neck, forming a part of a woman's dress in the 17th century and later.
Tucker (v. t.) A fuller.
Tucker (v. t.) To tire; to weary; -- usually with out.
Tucket (n.) A slight flourish on a trumpet; a fanfare.
Tucket (n.) A steak; a collop.
Tuck-net (n.) See Tuck, n., 2.
Tucum (n.) A fine, strong fiber obtained from the young leaves of a Brazilian palm (Astrocaryum vulgare), used for cordage, bowstrings, etc.; also, the plant yielding this fiber. Called also tecum, and tecum fiber.
Tucuma (n.) A Brazilian palm (Astrocaryum Tucuma) which furnishes an edible fruit.
Tudor (a.) Of or pertaining to a royal line of England, descended from Owen Tudor of Wales, who married the widowed queen of Henry V. The first reigning Tudor was Henry VII.; the last, Elizabeth.
Tue (n.) The parson bird.
Tuefall (n.) See To-fall.
Tue-iron (n.) See Tuyere.
Tue-irons (n. pl.) A pair of blacksmith's tongs.
Tuesday (n.) The third day of the week, following Monday and preceding Wednesday.
Tuet (n.) The lapwing.
Tufa () A soft or porous stone formed by depositions from water, usually calcareous; -- called also calcareous tufa.
Tufa () A friable volcanic rock or conglomerate, formed of consolidated cinders, or scoria.
Tufaceous (a.) Pertaining to tufa; consisting of, or resembling, tufa.
Tuff (n.) Same as Tufa.
Tuffoon (n.) See Typhoon.
Tuft (n.) A collection of small, flexible, or soft things in a knot or bunch; a waving or bending and spreading cluster; as, a tuft of flowers or feathers.
Tuft (n.) A cluster; a clump; as, a tuft of plants.
Tuft (n.) A nobleman, or person of quality, especially in the English universities; -- so called from the tuft, or gold tassel, on the cap worn by them.
Tufted (imp. & p. p.) of Tuft
Tufting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tuft
Tuft (v. t.) To separate into tufts.
Tuft (v. t.) To adorn with tufts or with a tuft.
Tuft (v. i.) To grow in, or form, a tuft or tufts.
Tuf-taffeta (n.) A silk fabric formerly in use, having a nap or pile.
Tufted (a.) Adorned with a tuft; as, the tufted duck.
Tufted (a.) Growing in tufts or clusters; tufty.
Tufthunter (n.) A hanger-on to noblemen, or persons of quality, especially in English universities; a toady. See 1st Tuft, 3.
Tufthunting (n.) The practice of seeking after, and hanging on, noblemen, or persons of quality, especially in English universities.
Tufty (a.) Abounding with tufts.
Tufty (a.) Growing in tufts or clusters.
Tugged (imp. & p. p.) of Tug
Tugging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tug
Tug (v. t.) To pull or draw with great effort; to draw along with continued exertion; to haul along; to tow; as, to tug a loaded cart; to tug a ship into port.
Tug (v. t.) To pull; to pluck.
Tug (v. i.) To pull with great effort; to strain in labor; as, to tug at the oar; to tug against the stream.
Tug (v. i.) To labor; to strive; to struggle.
Tug (n.) A pull with the utmost effort, as in the athletic contest called tug of war; a supreme effort.
Tug (n.) A sort of vehicle, used for conveying timber and heavy articles.
Tug (n.) A small, powerful steamboat used to tow vessels; -- called also steam tug, tugboat, and towboat.
Tug (n.) A trace, or drawing strap, of a harness.
Tug (n.) An iron hook of a hoisting tub, to which a tackle is affixed.
Tugan (n.) Same as Tucan.
Tugboat (n.) See Tug, n., 3.
Tugger (n.) One who tugs.
Tuggingly (adv.) In a tugging manner; with laborious pulling.
Tulle (n.) In plate armor, a suspended plate in from of the thigh. See Illust. of Tasses.
Tuition (n.) Superintending care over a young person; the particular watch and care of a tutor or guardian over his pupil or ward; guardianship.
Tuition (n.) Especially, the act, art, or business of teaching; instruction; as, children are sent to school for tuition; his tuition was thorough.
Tuition (n.) The money paid for instruction; the price or payment for instruction.
Tuitionary (a.) Of or pertaining to tuition.
Tuko-tuko (n.) A burrowing South American rodent (Ctenomys Braziliensis). It has small eyes and ears and a short tail. It resembles the pocket gopher in size, form, and habits, but is more nearly allied to the porcupines.
Tula metal () An alloy of silver, copper, and lead made at Tula in Russia.
Tule (n.) A large bulrush (Scirpus lacustris, and S. Tatora) growing abundantly on overflowed land in California and elsewhere.
Tulip (n.) Any plant of the liliaceous genus Tulipa. Many varieties are cultivated for their beautiful, often variegated flowers.
Tulip-eared (a.) Having erect, pointed ears; prick-eared; -- said of certain dogs.
Tulipist (n.) A person who is especially devoted to the cultivation of tulips.
Tulipomania (n.) A violent passion for the acquisition or cultivation of tulips; -- a word said by Beckman to have been coined by Menage.
Tulipomaniac (n.) One who is affected with tulipomania.
Tulip-shell (n.) A large, handsomely colored, marine univalve shell (Fasciolaria tulipa) native of the Southern United States. The name is sometimes applied also to other species of Fasciolaria.
Tulipwood (n.) The beautiful rose-colored striped wood of a Brazilian tree (Physocalymna floribunda), much used by cabinetmakers for inlaying.
Tull (v. t.) To allure; to tole.
Tulle (n.) A kind of silk lace or light netting, used for veils, etc.
Tullian (a.) Belonging to, or in the style of, Tully (Marcus Tullius Cicero).
Tullibee (n.) A whitefish (Coregonus tullibee) found in the Great Lakes of North America; -- called also mongrel whitefish.
Tumbled (imp. & p. p.) of Tumble
Tumbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tumble
Tumble (v. i.) To roll over, or to and fro; to throw one's self about; as, a person on pain tumbles and tosses.
Tumble (v. i.) To roll down; to fall suddenly and violently; to be precipitated; as, to tumble from a scaffold.
Tumble (v. i.) To play tricks by various movements and contortions of the body; to perform the feats of an acrobat.
Tumble (v. t.) To turn over; to turn or throw about, as for examination or search; to roll or move in a rough, coarse, or unceremonious manner; to throw down or headlong; to precipitate; -- sometimes with over, about, etc.; as, to tumble books or papers.
Tumble (v. t.) To disturb; to rumple; as, to tumble a bed.
Tumble (n.) Act of tumbling, or rolling over; a fall.
Tumblebug (n.) See Tumbledung.
Tumble-down (a.) Ready to fall; dilapidated; ruinous; as, a tumble-down house.
Tumbledung (n.) Any one of numerous species of scaraboid beetles belonging to Scarabaeus, Copris, Phanaeus, and allied genera. The female lays her eggs in a globular mass of dung which she rolls by means of her hind legs to a burrow excavated in the earth in which she buries it.
Tumbler (n.) One who tumbles; one who plays tricks by various motions of the body; an acrobat.
Tumbler (n.) A movable obstruction in a lock, consisting of a lever, latch, wheel, slide, or the like, which must be adjusted to a particular position by a key or other means before the bolt can be thrown in locking or unlocking.
Tumbler (n.) A piece attached to, or forming part of, the hammer of a gunlock, upon which the mainspring acts and in which are the notches for sear point to enter.
Tumbler (n.) A drinking glass, without a foot or stem; -- so called because originally it had a pointed or convex base, and could not be set down with any liquor in it, thus compelling the drinker to finish his measure.
Tumbler (n.) A variety of the domestic pigeon remarkable for its habit of tumbling, or turning somersaults, during its flight.
Tumbler (n.) A breed of dogs that tumble when pursuing game. They were formerly used in hunting rabbits.
Tumbler (n.) A kind of cart; a tumbrel.
Tumblerfuls (pl. ) of Tumblerful
Tumblerful (n.) As much as a tumbler will hold; enough to fill a tumbler.
Tumbleweed (n.) Any plant which habitually breaks away from its roots in the autumn, and is driven by the wind, as a light, rolling mass, over the fields and prairies; as witch grass, wild indigo, Amarantus albus, etc.
Tumbling () a. & vb. n. from Tumble, v.
Tumbrel (n.) Alt. of Tumbril
Tumbril (n.) A cucking stool for the punishment of scolds.
Tumbril (n.) A rough cart.
Tumbril (n.) A cart or carriage with two wheels, which accompanies troops or artillery, to convey the tools of pioneers, cartridges, and the like.
Tumbril (n.) A kind of basket or cage of osiers, willows, or the like, to hold hay and other food for sheep.
Tumefaction (n.) The act or process of tumefying, swelling, or rising into a tumor; a swelling.
Tumefied (imp. & p. p.) of Tumefy
Tumefying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tumefy
Tumefy (v. t.) To swell; to cause to swell, or puff up.
Tumefy (v. i.) To rise in a tumor; to swell.
Tumid (a.) Swelled, enlarged, or distended; as, a tumid leg; tumid flesh.
Tumid (a.) Rising above the level; protuberant.
Tumid (a.) Swelling in sound or sense; pompous; puffy; inflated; bombastic; falsely sublime; turgid; as, a tumid expression; a tumid style.
Tumidity (n.) The quality or state of being tumid.
Tummals (n.) A great quantity or heap.
Tumor (n.) A morbid swelling, prominence, or growth, on any part of the body; especially, a growth produced by deposition of new tissue; a neoplasm.
Tumor (n.) Affected pomp; bombast; swelling words or expressions; false magnificence or sublimity.
Tumored (a.) Distended; swelled.
Tumorous (a.) Swelling; protuberant.
Tumorous (a.) Inflated; bombastic.
Tump (n.) A little hillock; a knoll.
Tumped (imp. & p. p.) of Tump
Tumping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tump
Tump (v. t.) To form a mass of earth or a hillock about; as, to tump teasel.
Tump (v. t.) To draw or drag, as a deer or other animal after it has been killed.
Tumpline (n.) A strap placed across a man's forehead to assist him in carrying a pack on his back.
Tum-tum (n.) A dish made in the West Indies by beating boiled plantain quite soft in a wooden mortar.
Tumular (a.) Consisting in a heap; formed or being in a heap or hillock.
Tumulate (v. t.) To cover, as a corpse, with a mound or tomb; to bury.
Tumulate (v. i.) To swell.
Tumulose (a.) Tumulous.
Tumulosity (n.) The quality or state of being tumulous; hilliness.
Tumulous (a.) Full of small hills or mounds; hilly; tumulose.
Tumult (n.) The commotion or agitation of a multitude, usually accompanied with great noise, uproar, and confusion of voices; hurly-burly; noisy confusion.
Tumult (n.) Violent commotion or agitation, with confusion of sounds; as, the tumult of the elements.
Tumult (n.) Irregular or confused motion; agitation; high excitement; as, the tumult of the spirits or passions.
Tumult (v. i.) To make a tumult; to be in great commotion.
Tumulter (n.) A maker of tumults.
Tumultuarily (adv.) In a tumultuary manner.
Tumultuariness (n.) The quality or state of being tumultuary.
Tumultuary (a.) Attended by, or producing, a tumult; disorderly; promiscuous; confused; tumultuous.
Tumultuary (a.) Restless; agitated; unquiet.
Tumultuate (v. i.) To make a tumult.
Tumultuation (n.) Irregular or disorderly movement; commotion; as, the tumultuation of the parts of a fluid.
Tumultuous (a.) Full of tumult; characterized by tumult; disorderly; turbulent.
Tumultuous (a.) Conducted with disorder; noisy; confused; boisterous; disorderly; as, a tumultuous assembly or meeting.
Tumultuous (a.) Agitated, as with conflicting passions; disturbed.
Tumultuous (a.) Turbulent; violent; as, a tumultuous speech.
Tumuli (pl. ) of Tumulus
Tumulus (n.) An artificial hillock, especially one raised over a grave, particularly over the graves of persons buried in ancient times; a barrow.
Tun (n.) A large cask; an oblong vessel bulging in the middle, like a pipe or puncheon, and girt with hoops; a wine cask.
Tun (n.) A fermenting vat.
Tun (n.) A certain measure for liquids, as for wine, equal to two pipes, four hogsheads, or 252 gallons. In different countries, the tun differs in quantity.
Tun (n.) A weight of 2,240 pounds. See Ton.
Tun (n.) An indefinite large quantity.
Tun (n.) A drunkard; -- so called humorously, or in contempt.
Tun (n.) Any shell belonging to Dolium and allied genera; -- called also tun-shell.
Tunned (imp. & p. p.) of Tun
Tunning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tun
Tun (v. i.) To put into tuns, or casks.
Tuna (n.) The Opuntia Tuna. See Prickly pear, under Prickly.
Tuna (n.) The tunny.
Tuna (n.) The bonito, 2.
Tunable (a.) Capable of being tuned, or made harmonious; hence, harmonious; musical; tuneful.
Tun-bellied (a.) Having a large, protuberant belly, or one shaped like a tun; pot-bellied.
Tun-dish (n.) A tunnel.
Tundra (n.) A rolling, marshy, mossy plain of Northern Siberia.
Tune (n.) A sound; a note; a tone.
Tune (n.) A rhythmical, melodious, symmetrical series of tones for one voice or instrument, or for any number of voices or instruments in unison, or two or more such series forming parts in harmony; a melody; an air; as, a merry tune; a mournful tune; a slow tune; a psalm tune. See Air.
Tune (n.) The state of giving the proper, sound or sounds; just intonation; harmonious accordance; pitch of the voice or an instrument; adjustment of the parts of an instrument so as to harmonize with itself or with others; as, the piano, or the organ, is not in tune.
Tune (n.) Order; harmony; concord; fit disposition, temper, or humor; right mood.
Tuned (imp. & p. p.) of Tune
Tuning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tune
Tune (v. t.) To put into a state adapted to produce the proper sounds; to harmonize, to cause to be in tune; to correct the tone of; as, to tune a piano or a violin.
Tune (v. t.) To give tone to; to attune; to adapt in style of music; to make harmonious.
Tune (v. t.) To sing with melody or harmony.
Tune (v. t.) To put into a proper state or disposition.
Tune (v. i.) To form one sound to another; to form accordant musical sounds.
Tune (v. i.) To utter inarticulate harmony with the voice; to sing without pronouncing words; to hum.
Tuneful (a.) Harmonious; melodious; musical; as, tuneful notes.
Tuneless (a.) Without tune; inharmonious; unmusical.
Tuneless (a.) Not employed in making music; as, tuneless harps.
Tuneless (a.) Not expressed in music or poetry; unsung.
Tuner (n.) One who tunes; especially, one whose occupation is to tune musical instruments.
Tun-great (a.) Having the circumference of a tun.
Tungstate (n.) A salt of tungstic acid; a wolframate.
Tungsten (n.) A rare element of the chromium group found in certain minerals, as wolfram and scheelite, and isolated as a heavy steel-gray metal which is very hard and infusible. It has both acid and basic properties. When alloyed in small quantities with steel, it greatly increases its hardness. Symbol W (Wolframium). Atomic weight, 183.6. Specific gravity, 18.
Tungsten (n.) Scheelite, or calcium tungstate.
Tungstenic (a.) Of or pertaining to tungsten; containing tungsten; as, tungstenic ores.
Tungstic (a.) Of or pertaining to tungsten; derived from, or resembling, tungsten; wolframic; as, tungstic oxide.
Tungstite (n.) The oxide of tungsten, a yellow mineral occurring in a pulverulent form. It is often associated with wolfram.
Tunguses (n. pl.) A group of roving Turanian tribes occupying Eastern Siberia and the Amoor valley. They resemble the Mongols.
Tungusic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Tunguses; as, the Tungusic dialects.
Tunhoof (n.) Ground ivy; alehoof.
Tunic (n.) An under-garment worn by the ancient Romans of both sexes. It was made with or without sleeves, reached to or below the knees, and was confined at the waist by a girdle.
Tunic (n.) Any similar garment worm by ancient or Oriental peoples; also, a common name for various styles of loose-fitting under-garments and over-garments worn in modern times by Europeans and others.
Tunic (n.) Same as Tunicle.
Tunic (n.) A membrane, or layer of tissue, especially when enveloping an organ or part, as the eye.
Tunic (n.) A natural covering; an integument; as, the tunic of a seed.
Tunic (n.) See Mantle, n., 3 (a).
Tunicaries (pl. ) of Tunicary
Tunicary (n.) One of the Tunicata.
Tunicata (n. pl.) A grand division of the animal kingdom, intermediate, in some respects, between the invertebrates and vertebrates, and by some writers united with the latter. They were formerly classed with acephalous mollusks. The body is usually covered with a firm external tunic, consisting in part of cellulose, and having two openings, one for the entrance and one for the exit of water. The pharynx is usually dilated in the form of a sac, pierced by several series of ciliated slits, and serves as a gill.
Tunicate (a.) Alt. of Tunicated
Tunicated (a.) Covered with a tunic; covered or coated with layers; as, a tunicated bulb.
Tunicated (a.) Having a tunic, or mantle; of or pertaining to the Tunicata.
Tunicated (a.) Having each joint buried in the preceding funnel-shaped one, as in certain antennae of insects.
Tunicate (n.) One of the Tunicata.
Tunicin (n.) Animal cellulose; a substance present in the mantle, or tunic, of the Tunicates, which resembles, or is identical with, the cellulose of the vegetable kingdom.
Tunicle (n.) A slight natural covering; an integument.
Tunicle (n.) A short, close-fitting vestment worn by bishops under the dalmatic, and by subdeacons.
Tuning () a. & n. from Tune, v.
Tunk (n.) A sharp blow; a thump.
Tunker (n.) Same as Dunker.
Tunnage (n.) See Tonnage.
Tunnel (n. .) A vessel with a broad mouth at one end, a pipe or tube at the other, for conveying liquor, fluids, etc., into casks, bottles, or other vessels; a funnel.
Tunnel (n. .) The opening of a chimney for the passage of smoke; a flue; a funnel.
Tunnel (n. .) An artificial passage or archway for conducting canals or railroads under elevated ground, for the formation of roads under rivers or canals, and the construction of sewers, drains, and the like.
Tunnel (n. .) A level passage driven across the measures, or at right angles to veins which it is desired to reach; -- distinguished from the drift, or gangway, which is led along the vein when reached by the tunnel.
Tunneled (imp. & p. p.) of Tunnel
Tunnelled () of Tunnel
Tunneling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tunnel
Tunnelling () of Tunnel
Tunnel (v. t.) To form into a tunnel, or funnel, or to form like a tunnel; as, to tunnel fibrous plants into nests.
Tunnel (v. t.) To catch in a tunnel net.
Tunnel (v. t.) To make an opening, or a passageway, through or under; as, to tunnel a mountain; to tunnel a river.
Tunnies (pl. ) of Tunny
Tunny (n.) Any one of several species of large oceanic fishes belonging to the Mackerel family, especially the common or great tunny (Orcynus / Albacora thynnus) native of the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean. It sometimes weighs a thousand pounds or more, and is extensively caught in the Mediterranean. On the American coast it is called horse mackerel. See Illust. of Horse mackerel, under Horse.
Tup (v. t. & i.) To butt, as a ram does.
Tup (v. t. & i.) To cover; -- said of a ram.
Tup (n.) A ram.
Tupal (n.) Any one of the tupaiids.
Tupaiid (n.) Any one of several species of East Indian and Asiatic insectivores of the family Tupaiidae, somewhat resembling squirrels in size and arboreal habits. The nose is long and pointed.
Tupelo (n.) A North American tree (Nyssa multiflora) of the Dogwood family, having brilliant, glossy foliage and acid red berries. The wood is crossgrained and very difficult to split. Called also black gum, sour gum, and pepperidge.
Tupmen (pl. ) of Tupman
Tupman (n.) A man who breeds, or deals in tups.
Tur (n.) The urus.
Turacin (n.) A red or crimson pigment obtained from certain feathers of several species of turacou; whence the name. It contains nearly six per cent of copper.
Turacou (n.) Any one of several species of plantain eaters of the genus Turacus, native of Africa. They are remarkable for the peculiar green and red pigments found in their feathers.
Turacoverdin (n.) A green pigment found in the feathers of the turacou. See Turacin.
Turanian (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an extensive family of languages of simple structure and low grade (called also Altaic, Ural-Altaic, and Scythian), spoken in the northern parts of Europe and Asia and Central Asia; of pertaining to, or designating, the people who speak these languages.
Turanian (n.) One of the Turanians.
Turanians (n. pl.) An extensive division of mankind including the Mongols and allied races of Asia, together with the Malays and Polynesians.
Turanians (n. pl.) A group of races or tribes inhabiting Asia and closely related to the Mongols.
Turatt (n.) The hare kangaroo.
Turban (n.) A headdress worn by men in the Levant and by most Mohammedans of the male sex, consisting of a cap, and a sash, scarf, or shawl, usually of cotton or linen, wound about the cap, and sometimes hanging down the neck.
Turban (n.) A kind of headdress worn by women.
Turban (n.) The whole set of whorls of a spiral shell.
Turband (n.) A turban.
Turbaned (a.) Wearing a turban.
Turban-shell (n.) A sea urchin when deprived of its spines; -- popularly so called from a fancied resemblance to a turban.
Turbant (n.) A turban.
Turban-top (n.) A kind of fungus with an irregularly wrinkled, somewhat globular pileus (Helvella, / Gyromitra, esculenta.).
Turbaries (pl. ) of Turbary
Turbary (n.) A right of digging turf on another man's land; also, the ground where turf is dug.
Turbellaria (n. pl.) An extensive group of worms which have the body covered externally with vibrating cilia. It includes the Rhabdoc/la and Dendroc/la. Formerly, the nemerteans were also included in this group.
Turbellarian (n.) One of the Turbellaria. Also used adjectively.
Turbeth (n.) See Turpeth.
Turbid (a.) Having the lees or sediment disturbed; roiled; muddy; thick; not clear; -- used of liquids of any kind; as, turbid water; turbid wine.
Turbid (a.) Disturbed; confused; disordered.
Turbidity (n.) Turbidness.
Turbidly (adv.) In a turbid manner; with muddiness or confusion.
Turbidly (adv.) Proudly; haughtily.
Turbidness (n.) The quality or state of being turbid; muddiness; foulness.
Turbillion (n.) A whirl; a vortex.
Turbinaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to peat, or turf; of the nature of peat, or turf; peaty; turfy.
Turbinal (a.) Rolled in a spiral; scroll-like; turbinate; -- applied to the thin, plicated, bony or cartilaginous plates which support the olfactory and mucous membranes of the nasal chambers.
Turbinal (n.) A turbinal bone or cartilage.
Turbinate (v. i.) To revolve or spin like a top; to whirl.
Turbinate (a.) Alt. of Turbinated
Turbinated (a.) Whirling in the manner of a top.
Turbinated (a.) Shaped like a top, or inverted cone; narrow at the base, and broad at the apex; as, a turbinated ovary, pericarp, or root.
Turbinated (a.) Turbinal.
Turbinated (a.) Spiral with the whorls decreasing rapidly from a large base to a pointed apex; -- said of certain shells.
Turbination (n.) The act of spinning or whirling, as a top.
Turbine (n.) A water wheel, commonly horizontal, variously constructed, but usually having a series of curved floats or buckets, against which the water acts by its impulse or reaction in flowing either outward from a central chamber, inward from an external casing, or from above downward, etc.; -- also called turbine wheel.
Turbinella (n.) A genus of large marine gastropods having a thick heavy shell with conspicuous folds on the columella.
Turbinite (n.) A petrified shell resembling the genus Turbo.
Turbinoid (a.) Like or pertaining to Turbo or the family Turbinidae.
Turbit (n.) The turbot.
Turbit (n.) A variety of the domestic pigeon, remarkable for its short beak.
Turbite (n.) A fossil turbo.
Turbith (n.) See Turpeth.
Turbo (n.) Any one of numerous marine gastropods of the genus Turbo or family Turbinidae, usually having a turbinate shell, pearly on the inside, and a calcareous operculum.
Turbot (n.) A large European flounder (Rhombus maximus) highly esteemed as a food fish. It often weighs from thirty to forty pounds. Its color on the upper side is brownish with small roundish tubercles scattered over the surface. The lower, or blind, side is white. Called also bannock fluke.
Turbot (n.) Any one of numerous species of flounders more or less related to the true turbots, as the American plaice, or summer flounder (see Flounder), the halibut, and the diamond flounder (Hypsopsetta guttulata) of California.
Turbot (n.) The filefish; -- so called in Bermuda.
Turbot (n.) The trigger fish.
Turbulence (n.) The quality or state of being turbulent; a disturbed state; tumult; disorder; agitation.
Turbulency (n.) Turbulence.
Turbulent (a.) Disturbed; agitated; tumultuous; roused to violent commotion; as, the turbulent ocean.
Turbulent (a.) Disposed to insubordination and disorder; restless; unquiet; refractory; as, turbulent spirits.
Turbulent (a.) Producing commotion; disturbing; exciting.
Turbulently (adv.) In a turbulent manner.
Turcism (n.) A mode of speech peculiar to the Turks; a Turkish idiom or expression; also, in general, a Turkish mode or custom.
Turcomans (pl. ) of Turcoman
Turcoman (n.) A member of a tribe of Turanians inhabiting a region east of the Caspian Sea.
Turcoman (n.) A Turcoman carpet.
Turdiformes (n. pl.) A division of singing birds including the thrushes and allied kinds.
Turdus (n.) A genus of singing birds including the true thrushes.
Tureen (n.) A large, deep vessel for holding soup, or other liquid food, at the table.
Tureenfuls (pl. ) of Tureenful
Tureenful (n.) As much as a tureen can hold; enough to fill a tureen.
Turfs (pl. ) of Turf
Turves (pl. ) of Turf
Turf (n.) That upper stratum of earth and vegetable mold which is filled with the roots of grass and other small plants, so as to adhere and form a kind of mat; sward; sod.
Turf (n.) Peat, especially when prepared for fuel. See Peat.
Turf (n.) Race course; horse racing; -- preceded by the.
Turfed (imp. & p. p.) of Turf
Turfing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Turf
Turf (v. t.) To cover with turf or sod; as, to turf a bank, of the border of a terrace.
Turfen (a.) Made of turf; covered with turf.
Turfiness (n.) Quality or state of being turfy.
Turfing (n.) The act or process of providing or covering with turf.
Turfite (n.) A votary of the turf, or race course; hence, sometimes, a blackleg.
Turfless (a.) Destitute of turf.
Turfmen (pl. ) of Turfman
Turfman (n.) A turfite; a votary of the turf, or race course.
Turfy (superl.) Abounding with turf; made of, or covered with, turf.
Turfy (superl.) Having the nature or appearance of turf.
Turfy (superl.) Of or pertaining to the turf, or horse racing.
Turgent (a.) Rising into a tumor, or a puffy state; swelling; tumid; as, turgent humors.
Turgent (a.) Inflated; bombastic; turgid; pompous.
Turgesced (imp. & p. p.) of Turgesce
Turgescing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Turgesce
Turgesce (v. i.) To become turgid; to swell or be inflated.
Turgescence (n.) Alt. of Turgescency
Turgescency (n.) The act of swelling, or the state of being swollen, or turgescent.
Turgescency (n.) Empty magnificence or pompousness; inflation; bombast; turgidity.
Turgescent (a.) Becoming turgid or inflated; swelling; growing big.
Turgid (a.) Distended beyond the natural state by some internal agent or expansive force; swelled; swollen; bloated; inflated; tumid; -- especially applied to an enlarged part of the body; as, a turgid limb; turgid fruit.
Turgid (a.) Swelling in style or language; vainly ostentatious; bombastic; pompous; as, a turgid style of speaking.
Turgidity (n.) The quality or state of being turgid.
Turgidous (a.) Turgid.
Turiones (pl. ) of Turio
Turio (n.) A shoot or sprout from the ground.
Turiole (n.) The golden oriole.
Turion (n.) Same as Turio.
Turioniferous (a.) Producing shoots, as asparagus.
Turk (n.) A member of any of numerous Tartar tribes of Central Asia, etc.; esp., one of the dominant race in Turkey.
Turk (n.) A native or inhabitant of Turkey.
Turk (n.) A Mohammedan; esp., one living in Turkey.
Turk (n.) The plum weevil. See Curculio, and Plum weevil, under Plum.
Turkeis (a.) Turkish.
Turkey (n.) An empire in the southeast of Europe and southwest of Asia.
Turkeys (pl. ) of Turkey
Turkey (n.) Any large American gallinaceous bird belonging to the genus Meleagris, especially the North American wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo), and the domestic turkey, which was probably derived from the Mexican wild turkey, but had been domesticated by the Indians long before the discovery of America.
Turkeys (a.) Turkish.
Turkic (a.) Turkish.
Turkis (n.) Turquois.
Turkish (a.) Of or pertaining to Turkey or the Turks.
Turkish (n.) The language spoken by Turks, esp. that of the people of Turkey.
Turkism (n.) Same as Turcism.
Turkle (n.) A turtle.
Turkos (pl. ) of Turko
Turko (n.) One of a body of native Algerian tirailleurs in the French army, dressed as a Turk.
Turkois (n. & a.) Turquoise.
Turkomans (pl. ) of Turkoman
Turkoman (n.) Same as Turcoman.
Turlupin (n.) One of the precursors of the Reformation; -- a nickname corresponding to Lollard, etc.
Turm (n.) A troop; a company.
Turmaline (n.) See Tourmaline.
Turmeric (n.) An East Indian plant of the genus Curcuma, of the Ginger family.
Turmeric (n.) The root or rootstock of the Curcuma longa. It is externally grayish, but internally of a deep, lively yellow or saffron color, and has a slight aromatic smell, and a bitterish, slightly acrid taste. It is used for a dye, a medicine, a condiment, and a chemical test.
Turmeric (a.) Of or pertaining to turmeric; resembling, or obtained from, turmeric; specif., designating an acid obtained by the oxidation of turmerol.
Turmerol (n.) Turmeric oil, a brownish yellow, oily substance extracted from turmeric by ligroin.
Turmoil (n.) Harassing labor; trouble; molestation by tumult; disturbance; worrying confusion.
Turmoiled (imp. & p. p.) of Turmoil
Turmoiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Turmoil
Turmoil (v. t.) To harass with commotion; to disquiet; to worry.
Turmoil (v. i.) To be disquieted or confused; to be in commotion.
Turned (imp. & p. p.) of Turn
Turning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Turn
Turn (v. t.) To cause to move upon a center, or as if upon a center; to give circular motion to; to cause to revolve; to cause to move round, either partially, wholly, or repeatedly; to make to change position so as to present other sides in given directions; to make to face otherwise; as, to turn a wheel or a spindle; to turn the body or the head.
Turn (v. t.) To cause to present a different side uppermost or outmost; to make the upper side the lower, or the inside to be the outside of; to reverse the position of; as, to turn a box or a board; to turn a coat.
Turn (v. t.) To give another direction, tendency, or inclination to; to direct otherwise; to deflect; to incline differently; -- used both literally and figuratively; as, to turn the eyes to the heavens; to turn a horse from the road, or a ship from her course; to turn the attention to or from something.
Turn (v. t.) To change from a given use or office; to divert, as to another purpose or end; to transfer; to use or employ; to apply; to devote.
Turn (v. t.) To change the form, quality, aspect, or effect of; to alter; to metamorphose; to convert; to transform; -- often with to or into before the word denoting the effect or product of the change; as, to turn a worm into a winged insect; to turn green to blue; to turn prose into verse; to turn a Whig to a Tory, or a Hindu to a Christian; to turn good to evil, and the like.
Turn (v. t.) To form in a lathe; to shape or fashion (anything) by applying a cutting tool to it while revolving; as, to turn the legs of stools or tables; to turn ivory or metal.
Turn (v. t.) Hence, to give form to; to shape; to mold; to put in proper condition; to adapt.
Turn (v. t.) To translate; to construe; as, to turn the Iliad.
Turn (v. t.) To make acid or sour; to ferment; to curdle, etc.: as, to turn cider or wine; electricity turns milk quickly.
Turn (v. t.) To sicken; to nauseate; as, an emetic turns one's stomach.
Turn (v. i.) To move round; to have a circular motion; to revolve entirely, repeatedly, or partially; to change position, so as to face differently; to whirl or wheel round; as, a wheel turns on its axis; a spindle turns on a pivot; a man turns on his heel.
Turn (v. i.) Hence, to revolve as if upon a point of support; to hinge; to depend; as, the decision turns on a single fact.
Turn (v. i.) To result or terminate; to come about; to eventuate; to issue.
Turn (v. i.) To be deflected; to take a different direction or tendency; to be directed otherwise; to be differently applied; to be transferred; as, to turn from the road.
Turn (v. i.) To be changed, altered, or transformed; to become transmuted; also, to become by a change or changes; to grow; as, wood turns to stone; water turns to ice; one color turns to another; to turn Mohammedan.
Turn (v. i.) To undergo the process of turning on a lathe; as, ivory turns well.
Turn (v. i.) To become acid; to sour; -- said of milk, ale, etc.
Turn (v. i.) To become giddy; -- said of the head or brain.
Turn (v. i.) To be nauseated; -- said of the stomach.
Turn (v. i.) To become inclined in the other direction; -- said of scales.
Turn (v. i.) To change from ebb to flow, or from flow to ebb; -- said of the tide.
Turn (v. i.) To bring down the feet of a child in the womb, in order to facilitate delivery.
Turn (v. i.) To invert a type of the same thickness, as temporary substitute for any sort which is exhausted.
Turn (n.) The act of turning; movement or motion about, or as if about, a center or axis; revolution; as, the turn of a wheel.
Turn (n.) Change of direction, course, or tendency; different order, position, or aspect of affairs; alteration; vicissitude; as, the turn of the tide.
Turn (n.) One of the successive portions of a course, or of a series of occurrences, reckoning from change to change; hence, a winding; a bend; a meander.
Turn (n.) A circuitous walk, or a walk to and fro, ending where it began; a short walk; a stroll.
Turn (n.) Successive course; opportunity enjoyed by alternation with another or with others, or in due order; due chance; alternate or incidental occasion; appropriate time.
Turn (n.) Incidental or opportune deed or office; occasional act of kindness or malice; as, to do one an ill turn.
Turn (n.) Convenience; occasion; purpose; exigence; as, this will not serve his turn.
Turn (n.) Form; cast; shape; manner; fashion; -- used in a literal or figurative sense; hence, form of expression; mode of signifying; as, the turn of thought; a man of a sprightly turn in conversation.
Turn (n.) A change of condition; especially, a sudden or recurring symptom of illness, as a nervous shock, or fainting spell; as, a bad turn.
Turn (n.) A fall off the ladder at the gallows; a hanging; -- so called from the practice of causing the criminal to stand on a ladder which was turned over, so throwing him off, when the signal was given.
Turn (n.) A round of a rope or cord in order to secure it, as about a pin or a cleat.
Turn (n.) A pit sunk in some part of a drift.
Turn (n.) A court of record, held by the sheriff twice a year in every hundred within his county.
Turn (n.) Monthly courses; menses.
Turn (n.) An embellishment or grace (marked thus, /), commonly consisting of the principal note, or that on which the turn is made, with the note above, and the semitone below, the note above being sounded first, the principal note next, and the semitone below last, the three being performed quickly, as a triplet preceding the marked note. The turn may be inverted so as to begin with the lower note, in which case the sign is either placed on end thus /, or drawn thus /.
Turnbroach (n.) A turnspit.
Turn-buckle (n.) A loop or sleeve with a screw thread at one end and a swivel at the other, -- used for tightening a rod, stay, etc.
Turn-buckle (n.) A gravitating catch, as for fastening a shutter, the end of a chain, or a hasp.
Turnbull's blue () The double cyanide of ferrous and ferric iron, a dark blue amorphous substance having a coppery luster, used in dyeing, calico printing, etc. Cf. Prussian blue, under Prussian.
Turncoat (n.) One who forsakes his party or his principles; a renegade; an apostate.
Turnep (n.) See Turnip.
Turner (n.) One who turns; especially, one whose occupation is to form articles with a lathe.
Turner (n.) A variety of pigeon; a tumbler.
Turner (n.) A person who practices athletic or gymnastic exercises.
Turnerite (n.) A variety of monazite.
Turnery (n.) The art of fashioning solid bodies into cylindrical or other forms by means of a lathe.
Turnery (n.) Things or forms made by a turner, or in the lathe.
Turney (n. & v.) Tourney.
Turnhalle (n.) A building used as a school of gymnastics.
Turnicimorphae (n. pl.) A division of birds including Turnix and allied genera, resembling quails in appearance but differing from them anatomically.
Turning (n.) The act of one who, or that which, turns; also, a winding; a bending course; a fiexure; a meander.
Turning (n.) The place of a turn; an angle or corner, as of a road.
Turning (n.) Deviation from the way or proper course.
Turning (n.) Turnery, or the shaping of solid substances into various by means of a lathe and cutting tools.
Turning (n.) The pieces, or chips, detached in the process of turning from the material turned.
Turning (n.) A maneuver by which an enemy or a position is turned.
Turningness (n.) The quality of turning; instability; tergiversation.
Turnip (v. t.) The edible, fleshy, roundish, or somewhat conical, root of a cruciferous plant (Brassica campestris, var. Napus); also, the plant itself.
Turnip-shell (n.) Any one of several large, thick, spiral marine shells belonging to Rapa and allied genera, somewhat turnip-shaped.
Turnix (n.) Any one of numerous species of birds belonging to Turnix or Hemipodius and allied genera of the family Turnicidae. These birds resemble quails and partridges in general appearance and in some of their habits, but differ in important anatomical characteristics. The hind toe is usually lacking. They are found in Asia, Africa, Southern Europe, the East Indian Islands, and esp. in Australia and adjacent islands, where they are called quails (see Quail, n., 3.). See Turnicimorphae.
Turnkeys (pl. ) of Turnkey
Turnkey (n.) A person who has charge of the keys of a prison, for opening and fastening the doors; a warder.
Turnkey (n.) An instrument with a hinged claw, -- used for extracting teeth with a twist.
Turn-outs (pl. ) of Turn-out
Turn-out (n.) The act of coming forth; a leaving of houses, shops, etc.; esp., a quitting of employment for the purpose of forcing increase of wages; a strike; -- opposed to lockout.
Turn-out (n.) A short side track on a railroad, which may be occupied by one train while another is passing on a main track; a shunt; a siding; a switch.
Turn-out (n.) That which is prominently brought forward or exhibited; hence, an equipage; as, a man with a showy carriage and horses is said to have a fine turn-out.
Turn-out (n.) The aggregate number of persons who have come out, as from their houses, for a special purpose.
Turn-out (n.) Net quantity of produce yielded.
Turnover (n.) The act or result of turning over; an upset; as, a bad turnover in a carriage.
Turnover (n.) A semicircular pie or tart made by turning one half of a circular crust over the other, inclosing the fruit or other materials.
Turnover (n.) An apprentice, in any trade, who is handed over from one master to another to complete his time.
Turnover (a.) Admitting of being turned over; made to be turned over; as, a turnover collar, etc.
Turnpike (n.) A frame consisting of two bars crossing each other at right angles and turning on a post or pin, to hinder the passage of beasts, but admitting a person to pass between the arms; a turnstile. See Turnstile, 1.
Turnpike (n.) A gate or bar set across a road to stop carriages, animals, and sometimes people, till toll is paid for keeping the road in repair; a tollgate.
Turnpike (n.) A turnpike road.
Turnpike (n.) A winding stairway.
Turnpike (n.) A beam filled with spikes to obstruct passage; a cheval-de-frise.
Turnpiked (imp. & p. p.) of Turnpike
Turnpiking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Turnpike
Turnpike (v. t.) To form, as a road, in the manner of a turnpike road; into a rounded form, as the path of a road.
Turnplate (n.) A turntable.
Turn-sick (a.) Giddy.
Turn-sick (n.) A disease with which sheep are sometimes affected; gid; sturdy. See Gid.
Turnsole (a.) A plant of the genus Heliotropium; heliotrope; -- so named because its flowers are supposed to turn toward the sun.
Turnsole (a.) The sunflower.
Turnsole (a.) A kind of spurge (Euphorbia Helioscopia).
Turnsole (a.) The euphorbiaceous plant Chrozophora tinctoria.
Turnsole (a.) Litmus.
Turnsole (a.) A purple dye obtained from the plant turnsole. See def. 1 (d).
Turnspit (n.) One who turns a spit; hence, a person engaged in some menial office.
Turnspit (n.) A small breed of dogs having a long body and short crooked legs. These dogs were formerly much used for turning a spit on which meat was roasting.
Turnstile (n.) A revolving frame in a footpath, preventing the passage of horses or cattle, but admitting that of persons; a turnpike. See Turnpike, n., 1.
Turnstile (n.) A similar arrangement for registering the number of persons passing through a gateway, doorway, or the like.
Turnstone (n.) Any species of limicoline birds of the genera Strepsilas and Arenaria, allied to the plovers, especially the common American and European species (Strepsilas interpres). They are so called from their habit of turning up small stones in search of mollusks and other aquatic animals. Called also brant bird, sand runner, sea quail, sea lark, sparkback, and skirlcrake.
Turntable (n.) A large revolving platform, for turning railroad cars, locomotives, etc., in a different direction; -- called also turnplate.
Turnus (n.) A common, large, handsome, American swallowtail butterfly, now regarded as one of the forms of Papilio, / Jasoniades, glaucus. The wings are yellow, margined and barred with black, and with an orange-red spot near the posterior angle of the hind wings. Called also tiger swallowtail. See Illust. under Swallowtail.
Turnverein (n.) A company or association of gymnasts and athletes.
Turnwrest (n.) Designating a cumbersome style of plow used in England, esp. in Kent.
Turnwrest (n.) designating a kind of hillside plow.
Turonian (n.) One of the subdivisions into which the Upper Cretaceous formation of Europe is divided.
Turpentine (n.) A semifluid or fluid oleoresin, primarily the exudation of the terebinth, or turpentine, tree (Pistacia Terebinthus), a native of the Mediterranean region. It is also obtained from many coniferous trees, especially species of pine, larch, and fir.
Turpeth (n.) The root of Ipom/a Turpethum, a plant of Ceylon, Malabar, and Australia, formerly used in medicine as a purgative; -- sometimes called vegetable turpeth.
Turpeth (n.) A heavy yellow powder, Hg3O2SO4, which consists of a basic mercuric sulphate; -- called also turpeth mineral.
Turpin (n.) A land tortoise.
Turpitude (n.) Inherent baseness or vileness of principle, words, or actions; shameful wickedness; depravity.
Turquoise (n.) Alt. of Turquois
Turquois (n.) A hydrous phosphate of alumina containing a little copper; calaite. It has a blue, or bluish green, color, and usually occurs in reniform masses with a botryoidal surface.
Turquoise (a.) Having a fine light blue color, like that of choice mineral turquoise.
Turrel (n.) A certain tool used by coopers.
Turret (n.) A little tower, frequently a merely ornamental structure at one of the angles of a larger structure.
Turret (n.) A movable building, of a square form, consisting of ten or even twenty stories and sometimes one hundred and twenty cubits high, usually moved on wheels, and employed in approaching a fortified place, for carrying soldiers, engines, ladders, casting bridges, and other necessaries.
Turret (n.) A revolving tower constructed of thick iron plates, within which cannon are mounted. Turrets are used on vessels of war and on land.
Turret (n.) The elevated central portion of the roof of a passenger car. Its sides are pierced for light and ventilation.
Turreted (a.) Furnished with a turret or turrets; specifically (Zool.), having the whorls somewhat flattened on the upper side and often ornamented by spines or tubercles; -- said of certain spiral shells.
Turreted (a.) Formed like a tower; as, a turreted lamp.
Turribant (n.) A turban.
Turrical (a.) Of or pertaining to a turret, or tower; resembling a tower.
Turriculate (a.) Alt. of Turriculated
Turriculated (a.) Furnished with, or formed like, a small turret or turrets; somewhat turreted.
Turrilite (n.) Any fossil ammonite of the genus Turrilites. The shell forms an open spiral with the later whorls separate.
Turritella (n.) Any spiral marine gastropod belonging to Turritella and allied genera. These mollusks have an elongated, turreted shell, composed of many whorls. They have a rounded aperture, and a horny multispiral operculum.
Turritelloid (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the turritellas.
Turtle (n.) The turtledove.
Turtle (n.) Any one of the numerous species of Testudinata, especially a sea turtle, or chelonian.
Turtle (n.) The curved plate in which the form is held in a type-revolving cylinder press.
Turtledove (n.) Any one of numerous species of pigeons belonging to Turtur and allied genera, native of various parts of the Old World; especially, the common European species (Turtur vulgaris), which is noted for its plaintive note, affectionate disposition, and devotion to its mate.
Turtledove (n.) Any one of several species of pigeons more or less resembling the true turtledoves, as the American mourning dove (see under Dove), and the Australian turtledove (Stictopelia cuneata).
Turtle-footed (a.) Slow-footed.
Turtlehead (n.) An American perennial herb (Chelone glabra) having white flowers shaped like the head of a turtle. Called also snakehead, shell flower, and balmony.
Turtler (n.) One who catches turtles or tortoises.
Turtle-shell (n.) The turtle cowrie.
Turtling (n.) The act, practice, or art of catching turtles.
Turves () pl. of Turf.
Tuscan (a.) Of or pertaining to Tuscany in Italy; -- specifically designating one of the five orders of architecture recognized and described by the Italian writers of the 16th century, or characteristic of the order. The original of this order was not used by the Greeks, but by the Romans under the Empire. See Order, and Illust. of Capital.
Tuscan (n.) A native or inhabitant of Tuscany.
Tuscaroras (n. pl.) A tribe of North American Indians formerly living on the Neuse and Tar rivers in North Carolina. They were conquered in 1713, after which the remnant of the tribe joined the Five Nations, thus forming the Six Nations. See Six Nations, under Six.
Tuscor (n.) A tush of a horse.
Tush (interj.) An exclamation indicating check, rebuke, or contempt; as, tush, tush! do not speak of it.
Tush (n.) A long, pointed tooth; a tusk; -- applied especially to certain teeth of horses.
Tusk (n.) Same as Torsk.
Tusk (n.) One of the elongated incisor or canine teeth of the wild boar, elephant, etc.; hence, any long, protruding tooth.
Tusk (n.) A toothshell, or Dentalium; -- called also tusk-shell.
Tusk (n.) A projecting member like a tenon, and serving the same or a similar purpose, but composed of several steps, or offsets. Thus, in the illustration, a is the tusk, and each of the several parts, or offsets, is called a tooth.
Tusk (v. i.) To bare or gnash the teeth.
Tusked (a.) Furnished with tusks.
Tusker (n.) An elephant having large tusks.
Tusk-shell (n.) See 2d Tusk, n., 2.
Tusky (a.) Having tusks.
Tussac grass () Tussock grass.
Tussah silk () A silk cloth made from the cocoons of a caterpillar other than the common silkworm, much used in Bengal and China.
Tussah silk () The silk fiber itself.
Tussicular (a.) Of or pertaining to a cough.
Tussle (v. i. & t.) To struggle, as in sport; to scuffle; to struggle with.
Tussle (n.) A struggle; a scuffle.
Tussock (n.) A tuft, as of grass, twigs, hair, or the like; especially, a dense tuft or bunch of grass or sedge.
Tussock (n.) Same as Tussock grass, below.
Tussock (n.) A caterpillar of any one of numerous species of bombycid moths. The body of these caterpillars is covered with hairs which form long tufts or brushes. Some species are very injurious to shade and fruit trees. Called also tussock caterpillar. See Orgyia.
Tussocky (a.) Having the form of tussocks; full of, or covered with, tussocks, or tufts.
Tussuck (n.) See Tussock.
Tut () Be still; hush; -- an exclamation used for checking or rebuking.
Tut (n.) An imperial ensign consisting of a golden globe with a cross on it.
Tut (n.) A hassock.
Tutelage (n.) The act of guarding or protecting; guardianship; protection; as, the king's right of seigniory and tutelage.
Tutelage (n.) The state of being under a guardian; care or protection enjoyed.
Tutelar (a.) Alt. of Tutelary
Tutelary (a.) Having the guardianship or charge of protecting a person or a thing; guardian; protecting; as, tutelary goddesses.
Tutele (n.) Tutelage.
Tutenag (n.) Crude zinc.
Tutenag (n.) Packfong.
Tut-mouthed (a.) Having a projecting under jaw; prognathous.
Tut-nose (n.) A snub nose.
Tutor (n.) One who guards, protects, watches over, or has the care of, some person or thing.
Tutor (n.) A treasurer; a keeper.
Tutor (n.) One who has the charge of a child or pupil and his estate; a guardian.
Tutor (n.) A private or public teacher.
Tutor (n.) An officer or member of some hall, who instructs students, and is responsible for their discipline.
Tutor (n.) An instructor of a lower rank than a professor.
Tutored (imp. & p. p.) of Tutor
Tutoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tutor
Tutor (v. t.) To have the guardianship or care of; to teach; to instruct.
Tutor (v. t.) To play the tutor toward; to treat with authority or severity.
Tutorage (n.) The office or occupation of a tutor; tutorship; guardianship.
Tutoress (n.) A woman who performs the duties of a tutor; an instructress.
Tutorial (a.) Of or pertaining to a tutor; belonging to, or exercised by, a tutor.
Tutorism (n.) Tutorship.
Tutorize (v. t.) To teach; to instruct.
Tutorship (n.) The office, duty, or care of a tutor; guardianship; tutelage.
Tutory (n.) Tutorage.
Tutress (n.) Tutoress.
Tutrix (n.) A female guardian; a tutoress.
Tutsan (n.) A plant of the genus Hypericum (H. Androsoemum), from which a healing ointment is prepared in Spain; -- called also parkleaves.
Tutti (n. pl.) All; -- a direction for all the singers or players to perform together.
Tutty (n.) A yellow or brown amorphous substance obtained as a sublimation product in the flues of smelting furnaces of zinc, and consisting of a crude zinc oxide.
Tut-work (n.) Work done by the piece, as in nonmetaliferous rock, the amount done being usually reckoned by the fathom.
Tut-workmen (pl. ) of Tut-workman
Tut-workman (n.) One who does tut-work.
Tu-whit (n. & interj.) Alt. of Tu-whoo
Tu-whoo (n. & interj.) Words imitative of the notes of the owl.
Tuyere (n.) A nozzle, mouthpiece, or fixture through which the blast is delivered to the interior of a blast furnace, or to the fire of a forge.
Tuz (n.) A lock or tuft of hair.
Tuza (n.) The tucan.
Twaddle (v. i. & t.) To talk in a weak and silly manner, like one whose faculties are decayed; to prate; to prattle.
Twaddle (n.) Silly talk; gabble; fustian.
Twaddler (n.) One who prates in a weak and silly manner, like one whose faculties are decayed.
Twaddling () a. & n. from Twaddle, v.
Twaddy (n.) Idle trifling; twaddle.
Twagger (n.) A lamb.
Twain (a. & n.) Two; -- nearly obsolete in common discourse, but used in poetry and burlesque.
Twaite (n.) A European shad; -- called also twaite shad. See Shad.
Twaite (n.) A piece of cleared ground. See Thwaite.
Twang (n.) A tang. See Tang a state.
Twanged (imp. & p. p.) of Twang
Twanging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twang
Twang (v. i.) To sound with a quick, harsh noise; to make the sound of a tense string pulled and suddenly let go; as, the bowstring twanged.
Twang (v. t.) To make to sound, as by pulling a tense string and letting it go suddenly.
Twang (n.) A harsh, quick sound, like that made by a stretched string when pulled and suddenly let go; as, the twang of a bowstring.
Twang (n.) An affected modulation of the voice; a kind of nasal sound.
Twangle (v. i. & t.) To twang.
Twank (v. t.) To cause to make a sharp twanging sound; to twang, or twangle.
Twankay (n.) See Note under Tea, n., 1.
'T was () A contraction of it was.
Twattle (v. i.) To prate; to talk much and idly; to gabble; to chatter; to twaddle; as, a twattling gossip.
Twattle (v. t.) To make much of, as a domestic animal; to pet.
Twattle (n.) Act of prating; idle talk; twaddle.
Twattler (n.) One who twattles; a twaddler.
Tway (a. & n.) Two; twain.
Twayblade (n.) Any one of several orchidaceous plants which have only two leaves, as the species of Listera and of Liparis.
Tweag (v. t.) To tweak.
Tweag (n.) Alt. of Tweague
Tweague (n.) A pinching condition; perplexity; trouble; distress.
Tweak (v. t.) To pinch and pull with a sudden jerk and twist; to twitch; as, to tweak the nose.
Tweak (n.) A sharp pinch or jerk; a twist or twitch; as, a tweak of the nose.
Tweak (n.) Trouble; distress; tweag.
Tweak (n.) A prostitute.
Tweed (n.) A soft and flexible fabric for men's wear, made wholly of wool except in some inferior kinds, the wool being dyed, usually in two colors, before weaving.
Tweedle (v. t.) To handle lightly; -- said with reference to awkward fiddling; hence, to influence as if by fiddling; to coax; to allure.
Tweedle (v. t.) To twist.
Tweel (n. & v.) See Twill.
Tweer (n.) Same as Tuyere.
Tweese (n.) Alt. of Tweeze
Tweeze (n.) A surgeon's case of instruments.
Tweezers (n. pl.) Small pinchers used to pluck out hairs, and for other purposes.
Twelfth (a.) Next in order after the eleventh; coming after eleven others; -- the ordinal of twelve.
Twelfth (a.) Consisting, or being one of, twelve equal parts into which anything is divided.
Twelfth (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by twelve; one of twelve equal parts of one whole.
Twelfth (n.) The next in order after the eleventh.
Twelfth (n.) An interval comprising an octave and a fifth.
Twelfth-cake (n.) An ornamented cake distributed among friends or visitors on the festival of Twelfth-night.
Twelfth-day (n.) See Twelfthtide.
Twelfth-night (n.) The evening of Epiphany, or the twelfth day after Christmas, observed as a festival by various churches.
Twelfth-second (n.) A unit for the measurement of small intervals of time, such that 1012 (ten trillion) of these units make one second.
Twelfthtide (n.) The twelfth day after Christmas; Epiphany; -- called also Twelfth-day.
Twelve (a.) One more that eleven; two and ten; twice six; a dozen.
Twelve (n.) The number next following eleven; the sum of ten and two, or of twice six; twelve units or objects; a dozen.
Twelve (n.) A symbol representing twelve units, as 12, or xii.
Twelvemo (a. & n.) See Duodecimo.
Twelvemonth (n.) A year which consists of twelve calendar months.
Twelvepence (n.) A shilling sterling, being about twenty-four cents.
Twelvepenny (a.) Sold for a shilling; worth or costing a shilling.
Twelvescore (n. & a.) Twelve times twenty; two hundred and forty.
Twentieth (a.) Next in order after the nineteenth; tenth after the tenth; coming after nineteen others; -- the ordinal of twenty.
Twentieth (a.) Consisting, or being, one of twenty equal parts into which anything is divided.
Twentieth (n.) The next in order after the nineteen; one coming after nineteen others.
Twentieth (n.) The quotient of a unit divided by twenty; one of twenty equal parts of one whole.
Twenty (a.) One more that nineteen; twice; as, twenty men.
Twenty (a.) An indefinite number more or less that twenty.
Twenties (pl. ) of Twenty
Twenty (n.) The number next following nineteen; the sum of twelve and eight, or twice ten; twenty units or objects; a score.
Twenty (n.) A symbol representing twenty units, as 20, or xx.
Twentyfold (a.) Twenty times as many.
Twenty-fourmo (a.) Having twenty-four leaves to a sheet; as, a twenty-fourmo form, book, leaf, size, etc.
Twenty-fourmo (n.) A book composed of sheets, each of which is folded into twenty-four leaves; hence, indicating more or less definitely a size of book whose sheets are so folded; -- usually written 24mo, or 24.
Twey (a.) Two.
Tweyfold (a.) Twofold.
Twibil (n.) A kind of mattock, or ax; esp., a tool like a pickax, but having, instead of the points, flat terminations, one of which is parallel to the handle, the other perpendicular to it.
Twibil (n.) A tool for making mortises.
Twibil (n.) A reaping hook.
Twibilled (a.) Armed or provided with a twibil or twibils.
Twice (adv.) Two times; once and again.
Twice (adv.) Doubly; in twofold quantity or degree; as, twice the sum; he is twice as fortunate as his neighbor.
Twiddle (v. t.) To touch lightly, or play with; to tweedle; to twirl; as, to twiddle one's thumbs; to twiddle a watch key.
Twiddle (v. i.) To play with anything; hence, to be busy about trifles.
Twiddle (n.) A slight twist with the fingers.
Twiddle (n.) A pimple.
Twifallowed (imp. & p. p.) of Twifallow
Twifallowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twifallow
Twifallow (v. t.) To plow, or fallow, a second time (land that has been once fallowed).
Twifold (a.) Twofold; double.
Twigged (imp. & p. p.) of Twig
Twigging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twig
Twig (v. t.) To twitch; to pull; to tweak.
Twig (v. t.) To understand the meaning of; to comprehend; as, do you twig me?
Twig (v. t.) To observe slyly; also, to perceive; to discover.
Twig (n.) A small shoot or branch of a tree or other plant, of no definite length or size.
Twig (v. t.) To beat with twigs.
Twiggen (a.) Made of twigs; wicker.
Twigger (n.) A fornicator.
Twiggy (a.) Of or pertaining to a twig or twigs; like a twig or twigs; full of twigs; abounding with shoots.
Twight (v. t.) To twit.
Twight () p. p. of Twitch.
Twighte () imp. of Twitch.
Twigless (a.) Having no twigs.
Twigsome (a.) Full of, or abounding in, twigs; twiggy.
Twilight (n.) The light perceived before the rising, and after the setting, of the sun, or when the sun is less than 18 below the horizon, occasioned by the illumination of the earth's atmosphere by the direct rays of the sun and their reflection on the earth.
Twilight (n.) faint light; a dubious or uncertain medium through which anything is viewed.
Twilight (a.) Seen or done by twilight.
Twilight (a.) Imperfectly illuminated; shaded; obscure.
Twilled (imp. & p. p.) of Twill
Twilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twill
Twill (v. i.) To weave, as cloth, so as to produce the appearance of diagonal lines or ribs on the surface.
Twill (v. t.) An appearance of diagonal lines or ribs produced in textile fabrics by causing the weft threads to pass over one and under two, or over one and under three or more, warp threads, instead of over one and under the next in regular succession, as in plain weaving.
Twill (v. t.) A fabric women with a twill.
Twill (v. t.) A quill, or spool, for yarn.
Twilly (n.) A machine for cleansing or loosening wool by the action of a revolving cylinder covered with long iron spikes or teeth; a willy or willying machine; -- called also twilly devil, and devil. See Devil, n., 6, and Willy.
Twilt (n.) A quilt.
Twin (a.) Being one of two born at a birth; as, a twin brother or sister.
Twin (a.) Being one of a pair much resembling one another; standing the relation of a twin to something else; -- often followed by to or with.
Twin (a.) Double; consisting of two similar and corresponding parts.
Twin (a.) Composed of parts united according to some definite law of twinning. See Twin, n., 4.
Twin (n.) One of two produced at a birth, especially by an animal that ordinarily brings forth but one at a birth; -- used chiefly in the plural, and applied to the young of beasts as well as to human young.
Twin (n.) A sign and constellation of the zodiac; Gemini. See Gemini.
Twin (n.) A person or thing that closely resembles another.
Twin (n.) A compound crystal composed of two or more crystals, or parts of crystals, in reversed position with reference to each other.
Twinned (imp. & p. p.) of Twin
Twinning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twin
Twin (v. i.) To bring forth twins.
Twin (v. i.) To be born at the same birth.
Twin (v. t.) To cause to be twins, or like twins in any way.
Twin (v. t.) To separate into two parts; to part; to divide; hence, to remove; also, to strip; to rob.
Twin (v. i.) To depart from a place or thing.
Twinborn (a.) Born at the same birth.
Twine (n.) A twist; a convolution.
Twine (n.) A strong thread composed of two or three smaller threads or strands twisted together, and used for various purposes, as for binding small parcels, making nets, and the like; a small cord or string.
Twine (n.) The act of twining or winding round.
Twined (imp. & p. p.) of Twine
Twining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twine
Twine (n.) To twist together; to form by twisting or winding of threads; to wreathe; as, fine twined linen.
Twine (n.) To wind, as one thread around another, or as any flexible substance around another body.
Twine (n.) To wind about; to embrace; to entwine.
Twine (n.) To change the direction of.
Twine (n.) To mingle; to mix.
Twine (v. i.) To mutually twist together; to become mutually involved.
Twine (v. i.) To wind; to bend; to make turns; to meander.
Twine (v. i.) To turn round; to revolve.
Twine (v. i.) To ascend in spiral lines about a support; to climb spirally; as, many plants twine.
Twiner (n.) Any plant which twines about a support.
Twinged (imp. & p. p.) of Twinge
Twinging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twinge
Twinge (v. i.) To pull with a twitch; to pinch; to tweak.
Twinge (v. i.) To affect with a sharp, sudden pain; to torment with pinching or sharp pains.
Twinge (v. i.) To have a sudden, sharp, local pain, like a twitch; to suffer a keen, darting, or shooting pain; as, the side twinges.
Twinge (n.) A pinch; a tweak; a twitch.
Twinge (n.) A sudden sharp pain; a darting local pain of momentary continuance; as, a twinge in the arm or side.
Twining (a.) Winding around something; twisting; embracing; climbing by winding about a support; as, the hop is a twinning plant.
Twining (a.) The act of one who, or that which, twines; (Bot.) the act of climbing spirally.
Twink (v. i.) To twinkle.
Twink (n.) A wink; a twinkling.
Twink (n.) The chaffinch.
Twinkled (imp. & p. p.) of Twinkle
Twinkling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twinkle
Twinkle (v. i.) To open and shut the eye rapidly; to blink; to wink.
Twinkle (v. i.) To shine with an intermitted or a broken, quavering light; to flash at intervals; to sparkle; to scintillate.
Twinkle (n.) A closing or opening, or a quick motion, of the eye; a wink or sparkle of the eye.
Twinkle (n.) A brief flash or gleam, esp. when rapidly repeated.
Twinkle (n.) The time of a wink; a twinkling.
Twinkler (n.) One who, or that which, twinkles, or winks; a winker; an eye.
Twinkling (n.) The act of one who, or of that which, twinkles; a quick movement of the eye; a wink; a twinkle.
Twinkling (n.) A shining with intermitted light; a scintillation; a sparkling; as, the twinkling of the stars.
Twinkling (n.) The time of a wink; a moment; an instant.
Twinleaf (n.) See Jeffersonia.
Twinlike (a.) Closely resembling; being a counterpart.
Twinling (n.) A young or little twin, especially a twin lamb.
Twinned (a.) Composed of parts united according to a law of twinning. See Twin, n., 4.
Twinner (n.) One who gives birth to twins; a breeder of twins.
Twinning (n.) The assemblage of two or more crystals, or parts of crystals, in reversed position with reference to each other in accordance with some definite law; also, rarely, in artificial twinning (accomplished for example by pressure), the process by which this reversal is brought about.
Twinter (n.) A domestic animal two winters old.
Twire (n.) A twisted filament; a thread.
Twire (v. i.) To peep; to glance obliquely; to leer.
Twire (v. i.) To twinkle; to glance; to gleam.
Twire (v. i.) To sing, or twitter.
Twire-pipe (n.) A vagabond musician.
Twirled (imp. & p. p.) of Twirl
Twirling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twirl
Twirl (v. t.) To move or turn round rapidly; to whirl round; to move and turn rapidly with the fingers.
Twirl (v. i.) To revolve with velocity; to be whirled round rapidly.
Twirl (n.) The act of twirling; a rapid circular motion; a whirl or whirling; quick rotation.
Twirl (n.) A twist; a convolution.
Twisted (imp. & p. p.) of Twist
Twisting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twist
Twist (v. t.) To contort; to writhe; to complicate; to crook spirally; to convolve.
Twist (v. t.) Hence, to turn from the true form or meaning; to pervert; as, to twist a passage cited from an author.
Twist (v. t.) To distort, as a solid body, by turning one part relatively to another about an axis passing through both; to subject to torsion; as, to twist a shaft.
Twist (v. t.) To wreathe; to wind; to encircle; to unite by intertexture of parts.
Twist (v. t.) To wind into; to insinuate; -- used reflexively; as, avarice twists itself into all human concerns.
Twist (v. t.) To unite by winding one thread, strand, or other flexible substance, round another; to form by convolution, or winding separate things round each other; as, to twist yarn or thread.
Twist (v. t.) Hence, to form as if by winding one part around another; to wreathe; to make up.
Twist (v. t.) To form into a thread from many fine filaments; as, to twist wool or cotton.
Twist (v. i.) To be contorted; to writhe; to be distorted by torsion; to be united by winding round each other; to be or become twisted; as, some strands will twist more easily than others.
Twist (v. i.) To follow a helical or spiral course; to be in the form of a helix.
Twist (n.) The act of twisting; a contortion; a flexure; a convolution; a bending.
Twist (n.) The form given in twisting.
Twist (n.) That which is formed by twisting, convoluting, or uniting parts.
Twist (n.) A cord, thread, or anything flexible, formed by winding strands or separate things round each other.
Twist (n.) A kind of closely twisted, strong sewing silk, used by tailors, saddlers, and the like.
Twist (n.) A kind of cotton yarn, of several varieties.
Twist (n.) A roll of twisted dough, baked.
Twist (n.) A little twisted roll of tobacco.
Twist (n.) One of the threads of a warp, -- usually more tightly twisted than the filling.
Twist (n.) A material for gun barrels, consisting of iron and steel twisted and welded together; as, Damascus twist.
Twist (n.) The spiral course of the rifling of a gun barrel or a cannon.
Twist (n.) A beverage made of brandy and gin.
Twist (v. t.) A twig.
Twiste () imp. of Twist.
Twisted (a.) Contorted; crooked spirally; subjected to torsion; hence, perverted.
Twister (n.) One who twists; specifically, the person whose occupation is to twist or join the threads of one warp to those of another, in weaving.
Twister (n.) The instrument used in twisting, or making twists.
Twister (n.) A girder.
Twister (n.) The inner part of the thigh, the proper place to rest upon when on horseback.
Twistical (a.) Crooked; tortuous; hence, perverse; unfair; dishonest.
Twisting () a. & n. from Twist.
Twitted (imp. & p. p.) of Twit
Twitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twit
Twit (v. t.) To vex by bringing to notice, or reminding of, a fault, defect, misfortune, or the like; to revile; to reproach; to upbraid; to taunt; as, he twitted his friend of falsehood.
Twitched (imp. & p. p.) of Twitch
Twitching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twitch
Twitch (v. t.) To pull with a sudden jerk; to pluck with a short, quick motion; to snatch; as, to twitch one by the sleeve; to twitch a thing out of another's hand; to twitch off clusters of grapes.
Twitch (n.) The act of twitching; a pull with a jerk; a short, sudden, quick pull; as, a twitch by the sleeve.
Twitch (n.) A short, spastic contraction of the fibers or muscles; a simple muscular contraction; as, convulsive twitches; a twitch in the side.
Twitch (n.) A stick with a hole in one end through which passes a loop, which can be drawn tightly over the upper lip or an ear of a horse. By twisting the stick the compression is made sufficiently painful to keep the animal quiet during a slight surgical operation.
Twitcher (n.) One who, or that which, twitches.
Twitch grass () See Quitch grass.
Twite (n.) The European tree sparrow.
Twite (n.) The mountain linnet (Linota flavirostris).
Twitlark (n.) The meadow pipit.
Twitter (n.) One who twits, or reproaches; an upbraider.
Twittered (imp. & p. p.) of Twitter
Twittering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Twitter
Twitter (v. i.) To make a succession of small, tremulous, intermitted noises.
Twitter (v. i.) To make the sound of a half-suppressed laugh; to titter; to giggle.
Twitter (v. i.) To have a slight trembling of the nerves; to be excited or agitated.
Twitter (v. t.) To utter with a twitter.
Twitter (n.) The act of twittering; a small, tremulous, intermitted noise, as that made by a swallow.
Twitter (n.) A half-suppressed laugh; a fit of laughter partially restrained; a titter; a giggle.
Twitter (n.) A slight trembling or agitation of the nerves.
Twittering (n.) The act of one who, or that which, twitters.
Twittering (n.) A slight nervous excitement or agitation, such as is caused by desire, expectation, or suspense.
Twittingly (adv.) In a twitting manner; with upbraiding.
Twittle-twattle (n.) Tattle; gabble.
'Twixt () An abbreviation of Betwixt, used in poetry, or in colloquial language.
'Twixt-brain (n.) The thalamen/cephalon.
Two (n.) One and one; twice one.
Two (n.) The sum of one and one; the number next greater than one, and next less than three; two units or objects.
Two (n.) A symbol representing two units, as 2, II., or ii.
Two-capsuled (a.) Having two distinct capsules; bicapsular.
Two-cleft (a.) Divided about half way from the border to the base into two segments; bifid.
Two-decker (n.) A vessel of war carrying guns on two decks.
Two-edged (a.) Having two edges, or edges on both sides; as, a two-edged sword.
Twofold (a.) Double; duplicate; multiplied by two; as, a twofold nature; a twofold sense; a twofold argument.
Twofold (adv.) In a double degree; doubly.
Two-foot (a.) Measuring two feet; two feet long, thick, or wide; as, a two-foot rule.
Two-forked (a.) Divided into two parts, somewhat after the manner of a fork; dichotomous.
Two-hand (a.) Employing two hands; as, the two-hand alphabet. See Dactylology.
Two-handed (a.) Having two hands; -- often used as an epithet equivalent to large, stout, strong, or powerful.
Two-handed (a.) Used with both hands; as, a two-handed sword.
Two-handed (a.) Using either hand equally well; ambidextrous.
Two-lipped (a.) Having two lips.
Two-lipped (a.) Divided in such a manner as to resemble the two lips when the mouth is more or less open; bilabiate.
Two-parted (a.) Divided from the border to the base into two distinct parts; bipartite.
Twopence (n.) A small coin, and money of account, in England, equivalent to two pennies, -- minted to a fixed annual amount, for almsgiving by the sovereign on Maundy Thursday.
Twopenny (a.) Of the value of twopence.
Two-ply (a.) Consisting of two thicknesses, as cloth; double.
Two-ply (a.) Woven double, as cloth or carpeting, by incorporating two sets of warp thread and two of weft.
Two-ranked (a.) Alternately disposed on exactly opposite sides of the stem so as to from two ranks; distichous.
Two-sided (a.) Having two sides only; hence, double-faced; hypocritical.
Two-sided (a.) Symmetrical.
Two-tongued (a.) Double-tongued; deceitful.
Twyblade (n.) See Twayblade.
Ty-all (n.) Something serving to tie or secure.
Tyburn ticket () A certificate given to one who prosecutes a felon to conviction, exempting him from certain parish and ward offices.
Tychonic (a.) Of or pertaining to Tycho Brahe, or his system of astronomy.
Tycoon (n.) The title by which the shogun, or former commander in chief of the Japanese army, was known to foreigners.
Tydy (n.) Same as Tidy.
Tye (n.) A knot; a tie.
Tye (n.) A chain or rope, one end of which passes through the mast, and is made fast to the center of a yard; the other end is attached to a tackle, by means of which the yard is hoisted or lowered.
Tye (n.) A trough for washing ores.
Tye (v. t.) See Tie, the proper orthography.
Tyer (n.) One who ties, or unites.
Tyfoon (n.) See Typhoon.
Tyger (n.) A tiger.
Tying () p. pr. of Tie.
Tying (n.) The act or process of washing ores in a buddle.
Tyke (n.) See 2d Tike.
Tylari (pl. ) of Tylarus
Tylarus (n.) One of the pads on the under surface of the toes of birds.
Tyler (n.) See 2d Tiler.
Tylopoda (n. pl.) A tribe of ungulates comprising the camels.
Tyloses (pl. ) of Tylosis
Tylosis (n.) An intrusion of one vegetable cell into the cavity of another, sometimes forming there an irregular mass of cells.
Tymbal (n.) A kind of kettledrum.
Tymp (n.) A hollow water-cooled iron casting in the upper part of the archway in which the dam stands.
Tympan (n.) A drum.
Tympan (n.) A panel; a tympanum.
Tympan (n.) A frame covered with parchment or cloth, on which the blank sheets are put, in order to be laid on the form to be impressed.
Tympanal (n.) Tympanic.
Tympanic (a.) Like a tympanum or drum; acting like a drumhead; as, a tympanic membrane.
Tympanic (a.) Of or pertaining to the tympanum.
Tympanic (n.) The tympanic bone.
Tympanist (n.) One who beats a drum.
Tympanites (n.) A flatulent distention of the belly; tympany.
Tympanitic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or affected with, tympanites.
Tympanitis (n.) Inflammation of the lining membrane of the middle ear.
Tympanize (v. i.) To drum.
Tympanized (imp. & p. p.) of Tympanize
Tympanizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tympanize
Tympanize (v. t.) To stretch, as a skin over the head of a drum; to make into a drum or drumhead, or cause to act or sound like a drum.
Tympani (pl. ) of Tympano
Tympano (n.) A kettledrum; -- chiefly used in the plural to denote the kettledrums of an orchestra. See Kettledrum.
Tympano- () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the tympanum; as in tympanohyal, tympano-Eustachian.
Tympanohyal (a.) Of or pertaining to the tympanum and the hyoidean arch.
Tympanohyal (n.) The proximal segment in the hyoidean arch, becoming a part of the styloid process of the temporal bone in adult man.
Tympanums (pl. ) of Tympanum
Tympana (pl. ) of Tympanum
Tympanum (n.) The ear drum, or middle ear. Sometimes applied incorrectly to the tympanic membrane. See Ear.
Tympanum (n.) A chamber in the anterior part of the syrinx of birds.
Tympanum (n.) One of the naked, inflatable air sacs on the neck of the prairie chicken and other species of grouse.
Tympanum (n.) The recessed face of a pediment within the frame made by the upper and lower cornices, being usually a triangular space or table.
Tympanum (n.) The space within an arch, and above a lintel or a subordinate arch, spanning the opening below the arch.
Tympanum (n.) A drum-shaped wheel with spirally curved partitions by which water is raised to the axis when the wheel revolves with the lower part of the circumference submerged, -- used for raising water, as for irrigation.
Tympany (n.) A flatulent distention of the belly; tympanites.
Tympany (n.) Hence, inflation; conceit; bombast; turgidness.
Tynd (v. t.) To shut; to close.
Tyne (v. t.) To lose.
Tyne (v. i.) To become lost; to perish.
Tyne (n.) A prong or point of an antler.
Tyne (n.) Anxiety; tine.
Tyny (a.) Small; tiny.
Typal (a.) Relating to a type or types; belonging to types; serving as a type; typical.
-type (n.) A combining form signifying impressed form; stamp; print; type; typical form; representative; as in stereotype phototype, ferrotype, monotype.
Type (n.) The mark or impression of something; stamp; impressed sign; emblem.
Type (n.) Form or character impressed; style; semblance.
Type (n.) A figure or representation of something to come; a token; a sign; a symbol; -- correlative to antitype.
Type (n.) That which possesses or exemplifies characteristic qualities; the representative.
Type (n.) A general form or structure common to a number of individuals; hence, the ideal representation of a species, genus, or other group, combining the essential characteristics; an animal or plant possessing or exemplifying the essential characteristics of a species, genus, or other group. Also, a group or division of animals having a certain typical or characteristic structure of body maintained within the group.
Type (n.) The original object, or class of objects, scene, face, or conception, which becomes the subject of a copy; esp., the design on the face of a medal or a coin.
Type (n.) A simple compound, used as a mode or pattern to which other compounds are conveniently regarded as being related, and from which they may be actually or theoretically derived.
Type (n.) A raised letter, figure, accent, or other character, cast in metal or cut in wood, used in printing.
Type (n.) Such letters or characters, in general, or the whole quantity of them used in printing, spoken of collectively; any number or mass of such letters or characters, however disposed.
Typed (imp. & p. p.) of Type
Typing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Type
Type (v. t.) To represent by a type, model, or symbol beforehand; to prefigure.
Type (v. t.) To furnish an expression or copy of; to represent; to typify.
Typesetter (n.) One who, or that which, sets type; a compositor; a machine for setting type.
Typesetting (n.) The act or art of setting type.
Typewrite (v. t. & i.) To write with a typewriter.
Typewriter (n.) An instrument for writing by means of type, a typewheel, or the like, in which the operator makes use of a sort of keyboard, in order to obtain printed impressions of the characters upon paper.
Typewriter (n.) One who uses such an instrument.
Typewriting (n.) The act or art of using a typewriter; also, a print made with a typewriter.
Typhlitis (n.) Inflammation of the caecum.
Typhlosole (n.) A fold of the wall which projects into the cavity of the intestine in bivalve mollusks, certain annelids, starfishes, and some other animals.
Typhoean (a.) Of or pertaining to Typhoeus (t/*f/"/s), the fabled giant of Greek mythology, having a hundred heads; resembling Typhoeus.
Typhoid (a.) Of or pertaining to typhus; resembling typhus; of a low grade like typhus; as, typhoid symptoms.
Typhomalarial (a.) Pertaining to typhoid fever and malaria; as, typhomalarial fever, a form of fever having symptoms both of malarial and typhoid fever.
Typhomania (n.) A low delirium common in typhus fever.
Typhon (n.) According to Hesiod, the son of Typhoeus, and father of the winds, but later identified with him.
Typhon (n.) A violent whirlwind; a typhoon.
Typhoon (n.) A violent whirlwind; specifically, a violent whirlwind occurring in the Chinese seas.
Typhos (n.) Typhus.
Typhotoxin (n.) A basic substance, C7H17NO2, formed from the growth of the typhoid bacillus on meat pulp. It induces in small animals lethargic conditions with liquid dejecta.
Typhous (a.) Of or pertaining to typhus; of the nature of typhus.
Typhus (n.) A contagious continued fever lasting from two to three weeks, attended with great prostration and cerebral disorder, and marked by a copious eruption of red spots upon the body. Also called jail fever, famine fever, putrid fever, spottled fever, etc. See Jail fever, under Jail.
Typic (a.) Typical.
Typical (a.) Of the nature of a type; representing something by a form, model, or resemblance; emblematic; prefigurative.
Typical (a.) Combining or exhibiting the essential characteristics of a group; as, a typical genus.
Typification (n.) The act of typifying, or representing by a figure.
Typifier (n.) One who, or that which, typifies.
Typified (imp. & p. p.) of Typify
Typifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Typify
Typify (v. t.) To represent by an image, form, model, or resemblance.
Typo (n.) A compositor.
Typocosmy (n.) A representation of the world.
Typographer (n.) A printer.
Typographic (a.) Alt. of Typographical
Typographical (a.) Of or pertaining to the act or act of representing by types or symbols; emblematic; figurative; typical.
Typographical (a.) Of or pertaining to typography or printing; as, the typographic art.
Typography (n.) The act or art of expressing by means of types or symbols; emblematical or hieroglyphic representation.
Typography (n.) The art of printing with types; the use of types to produce impressions on paper, vellum, etc.
Typolite (n.) A stone or fossil which has on it impressions or figures of plants and animals.
Typology (n.) A discourse or treatise on types.
Typology (n.) The doctrine of types.
Typothetae (n. pl.) Printers; -- used in the name of an association of the master printers of the United States and Canada, called The United Typothetae of America.
Tyran (n.) A tyrant.
Tyranness (n.) A female tyrant.
Tyrannic (a.) Alt. of Tyrannical
Tyrannical (a.) Of or pertaining to a tyrant; suiting a tyrant; unjustly severe in government; absolute; imperious; despotic; cruel; arbitrary; as, a tyrannical prince; a tyrannical master; tyrannical government.
Tyrannicidal (a.) Of or pertaining to tyrannicide, or the murder of a tyrant.
Tyrannicide (n.) The act of killing a tyrant.
Tyrannicide (n.) One who kills a tyrant.
Tyrannish (a.) Like a tyrant; tyrannical.
Tyrannized (imp. & p. p.) of Tyrannize
Tyrannizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Tyrannize
Tyrannize (v. i.) To act the tyrant; to exercise arbitrary power; to rule with unjust and oppressive severity; to exercise power others not permitted by law or required by justice, or with a severity not necessary to the ends of justice and government; as, a prince will often tyrannize over his subjects; masters sometimes tyrannize over their servants or apprentices.
Tyrannize (v. t.) To subject to arbitrary, oppressive, or tyrannical treatment; to oppress.
Tyrannous (a.) Tyrannical; arbitrary; unjustly severe; despotic.
Tyranny (n.) The government or authority of a tyrant; a country governed by an absolute ruler; hence, arbitrary or despotic exercise of power; exercise of power over subjects and others with a rigor not authorized by law or justice, or not requisite for the purposes of government.
Tyranny (n.) Cruel government or discipline; as, the tyranny of a schoolmaster.
Tyranny (n.) Severity; rigor; inclemency.
Tyrant (n.) An absolute ruler; a sovereign unrestrained by law or constitution; a usurper of sovereignty.
Tyrant (n.) Specifically, a monarch, or other ruler or master, who uses power to oppress his subjects; a person who exercises unlawful authority, or lawful authority in an unlawful manner; one who by taxation, injustice, or cruel punishment, or the demand of unreasonable services, imposes burdens and hardships on those under his control, which law and humanity do not authorize, or which the purposes of government do not require; a cruel master; an oppressor.
Tyrant (n.) Any one of numerous species of American clamatorial birds belonging to the family Tyrannidae; -- called also tyrant bird.
Tyrant (v. i.) To act like a tyrant; to play the tyrant; to tyrannical.
Tyre () Curdled milk.
Tyre (n. & v.) Attire. See 2d and 3d Tire.
Tyre (v. i.) To prey. See 4th Tire.
Tyrian (a.) Of or pertaining to Tyre or its people.
Tyrian (a.) Being of the color called Tyrian purple.
Tyrian (n.) A native of Tyre.
Tyros (pl. ) of Tyro
Tyro (n.) A beginner in learning; one who is in the rudiments of any branch of study; a person imperfectly acquainted with a subject; a novice.
Tyrociny (n.) The state of being a tyro, or beginner; apprenticeship.
Tyrolite (n.) A translucent mineral of a green color and pearly or vitreous luster. It is a hydrous arseniate of copper.
Tyronism (n.) The state of being a tyro, or beginner.
Tyrosin (n.) A white crystalline nitrogenous substance present in small amount in the pancreas and spleen, and formed in large quantity from the decomposition of proteid matter by various means, -- as by pancreatic digestion, by putrefaction as of cheese, by the action of boiling acids, etc. Chemically, it consists of oxyphenol and amidopropionic acid, and by decomposition yields oxybenzoic acid, or some other benzol derivative.
Tyrotoxicon (n.) A ptomaine discovered by Vaughan in putrid cheese and other dairy products, and producing symptoms similar to cholera infantum. Chemically, it appears to be related to, or identical with, diazobenzol.
Tyrotoxine (n.) Same as Tyrotoxicon.
Tysonite (n.) A fluoride of the cerium metals occurring in hexagonal crystals of a pale yellow color. Cf. Fluocerite.
Tystie (n.) The black guillemot.
Tythe (n.) See Tithe.
Tything (n.) See Tithing.
Tzar (n.) The emperor of Russia. See Czar.
Tzarina (n.) Alt. of Tzaritza
Tzaritza (n.) The empress of Russia. See Czarina.
Tzetze (n.) Same as Tsetse.
U () the twenty-first letter of the English alphabet, is a cursive form of the letter V, with which it was formerly used interchangeably, both letters being then used both as vowels and consonants. U and V are now, however, differentiated, U being used only as a vowel or semivowel, and V only as a consonant. The true primary vowel sound of U, in Anglo-Saxon, was the sound which it still retains in most of the languages of Europe, that of long oo, as in tool, and short oo, as in wood, answering to the French ou in tour. Etymologically U is most closely related to o, y (vowel), w, and v; as in two, duet, dyad, twice; top, tuft; sop, sup; auspice, aviary. See V, also O and Y.
Uakari (n.) Same as Ouakari.
Uberous (a.) Fruitful; copious; abundant; plentiful.
Uberty (n.) Fruitfulness; copiousness; abundance; plenty.
Ubication (n.) Alt. of Ubiety
Ubiety (n.) The quality or state of being in a place; local relation; position or location; whereness.
Ubiquarian (a.) Ubiquitous.
Ubiquitist (n.) Alt. of Ubiquitarian
Ubiquitarian (n.) One of a school of Lutheran divines which held that the body of Christ is present everywhere, and especially in the eucharist, in virtue of his omnipresence. Called also ubiquitist, and ubiquitary.
Ubiquitariness (n.) Quality or state of being ubiquitary, or ubiquitous.
Ubiquitary (a.) Ubiquitous.
Ubiquitaries (pl. ) of Ubiquitary
Ubiquitary (n.) One who exists everywhere.
Ubiquitary (n.) A ubiquist.
Ubiquitist (n.) Same as Ubiquist.
Ubiquitous (a.) Existing or being everywhere, or in all places, at the same time; omnipresent.
Ubiquity (n.) Existence everywhere, or in places, at the same time; omnipresence; as, the ubiquity of God is not disputed by those who admit his existence.
Ubiquity (n.) The doctrine, as formulated by Luther, that Christ's glorified body is omnipresent.
Uchees (n. pl.) A tribe of North American Indians belonging to the Creek confederation.
Uckewallist (n.) One of a sect of rigid Anabaptists, which originated in 1637, and whose tenets were essentially the same as those of the Mennonists. In addition, however, they held that Judas and the murderers of Christ were saved. So called from the founder of the sect, Ucke Wallis, a native of Friesland.
Udal (n.) In Shetland and Orkney, a freehold; property held by udal, or allodial, right.
Udal (a.) Allodial; -- a term used in Finland, Shetland, and Orkney. See Allodial.
Udaler (n.) Alt. of Udalman
Udalman (n.) In the Shetland and Orkney Islands, one who holds property by udal, or allodial, right.
Udder (n.) The glandular organ in which milk is secreted and stored; -- popularly called the bag in cows and other quadrupeds. See Mamma.
Udder (n.) One of the breasts of a woman.
Uddered (a.) Having an udder or udders.
Udderless (a.) Destitute or deprived of an udder.
Udderless (a.) Hence, without mother's milk; motherless; as, udderless lambs.
Udometer (n.) A rain gauge.
Ugh (interj.) An exclamation expressive of disgust, horror, or recoil. Its utterance is usually accompanied by a shudder.
Uglesome (a.) Ugly.
Uglify (v. t.) To disfigure; to make ugly.
Uglily (adv.) In an ugly manner; with deformity.
Ugliness (n.) The quality or state of being ugly.
Ugly (superl.) Offensive to the sight; contrary to beauty; being of disagreeable or loathsome aspect; unsightly; repulsive; deformed.
Ugly (superl.) Ill-natured; crossgrained; quarrelsome; as, an ugly temper; to feel ugly.
Ugly (superl.) Unpleasant; disagreeable; likely to cause trouble or loss; as, an ugly rumor; an ugly customer.
Ugly (n.) A shade for the face, projecting from the bonnet.
Ugly (v. t.) To make ugly.
Ugrian (n. pl.) A Mongolian race, ancestors of the Finns.
Ugsome (a.) Ugly; offensive; loathsome.
Uhlan (n.) One of a certain description of militia among the Tartars.
Uhlan (n.) One of a kind of light cavalry of Tartaric origin, first introduced into European armies in Poland. They are armed with lances, pistols, and sabers, and are employed chiefly as skirmishers.
Uintatherium (n.) An extinct genus of large Eocene ungulates allied to Dinoceras. This name is sometimes used for nearly all the known species of the group. See Dinoceras.
Ukase (n.) In Russia, a published proclamation or imperial order, having the force of law.
Ulan (n.) See Uhlan.
Ularburong (n.) A large East Indian nocturnal tree snake (Dipsas dendrophila). It is not venomous.
Ulcer (n.) A solution of continuity in any of the soft parts of the body, discharging purulent matter, found on a surface, especially one of the natural surfaces of the body, and originating generally in a constitutional disorder; a sore discharging pus. It is distinguished from an abscess, which has its beginning, at least, in the depth of the tissues.
Ulcer (n.) Fig.: Anything that festers and corrupts like an open sore; a vice in character.
Ulcer (v. t.) To ulcerate.
Ulcerable (a.) Capable of ulcerating.
Ulcerated (imp. & p. p.) of Ulcerate
Ulcerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ulcerate
Ulcerate (v. i.) To be formed into an ulcer; to become ulcerous.
Ulcerate (v. t.) To affect with, or as with, an ulcer or ulcers.
Ulcerated (a.) Affected with, or as with, an ulcer or ulcers; as, an ulcerated sore throat.
Ulceration (n.) The process of forming an ulcer, or of becoming ulcerous; the state of being ulcerated; also, an ulcer.
Ulcerative (a.) Of or pertaining to ulcers; as, an ulcerative process.
Ulcered (a.) Ulcerous; ulcerated.
Ulcerous (a.) Having the nature or character of an ulcer; discharging purulent or other matter.
Ulcerous (a.) Affected with an ulcer or ulcers; ulcerated.
Ulcuscle (n.) Alt. of Ulcuscule
Ulcuscule (n.) A little ulcer.
Ule (n.) A Mexican and Central American tree (Castilloa elastica and C. Markhamiana) related to the breadfruit tree. Its milky juice contains caoutchouc. Called also ule tree.
Ulema (n.) A college or corporation in Turkey composed of the hierarchy, namely, the imams, or ministers of religion, the muftis, or doctors of law, and the cadis, or administrators of justice.
Ulexite (n.) A mineral occurring in white rounded crystalline masses. It is a hydrous borate of lime and soda.
Uliginose (a.) Alt. of Uliginous
Uliginous (a.) Muddy; oozy; slimy; also, growing in muddy places.
Ullage (n.) The amount which a vessel, as a cask, of liquor lacks of being full; wantage; deficiency.
Ullet (n.) A European owl (Syrnium aluco) of a tawny color; -- called also uluia.
Ullmannite (n.) A brittle mineral of a steel-gray color and metallic luster, containing antimony, arsenic, sulphur, and nickel.
Ulluco (n.) See Melluc/o.
Ulmaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a suborder of urticaceous plants, of which the elm is the type.
Ulmate (n.) A salt of ulmic acid.
Ulmic (a.) Pertaining to ulmin; designating an acid obtained from ulmin.
Ulmin (n.) A brown amorphous substance found in decaying vegetation. Cf. Humin.
Ulmus (n.) A genus of trees including the elm.
Ulna (n.) The postaxial bone of the forearm, or branchium, corresponding to the fibula of the hind limb. See Radius.
Ulna (n.) An ell; also, a yard.
Ulnage (n.) Measurement by the ell; alnage.
Ulnar (a.) Of or pertaining to the ulna, or the elbow; as, the ulnar nerve.
Ulnaria (pl. ) of Ulnare
Ulnare (n.) One of the bones or cartilages of the carpus, which articulates with the ulna and corresponds to the cuneiform in man.
Ulodendron (n.) A genus of fossil trees.
Ulonata (n. pl.) A division of insects nearly equivalent to the true Orthoptera.
Ulotrichan (a.) Of or pertaining to the Ulotrichi.
Ulotrichan (n.) One of the Ulotrichi.
Ulotrichi (n. pl.) The division of mankind which embraces the races having woolly or crispy hair. Cf. Leiotrichi.
Ulotrichous (a.) Having woolly or crispy hair; -- opposed to leiotrichous.
Ulster (n.) A long, loose overcoat, worn by men and women, originally made of frieze from Ulster, Ireland.
Ulterior (a.) Situated beyond, or on the farther side; thither; -- correlative with hither.
Ulterior (a.) Further; remoter; more distant; succeeding; as, ulterior demands or propositions; ulterior views; what ulterior measures will be adopted is uncertain.
Ulterior (n.) Ulterior side or part.
Ulteriorly (adv.) More distantly or remotely.
Ultima (a.) Most remote; furthest; final; last.
Ultima (n.) The last syllable of a word.
Ultimate (a.) Farthest; most remote in space or time; extreme; last; final.
Ultimate (a.) Last in a train of progression or consequences; tended toward by all that precedes; arrived at, as the last result; final.
Ultimate (a.) Incapable of further analysis; incapable of further division or separation; constituent; elemental; as, an ultimate constituent of matter.
Ultimated (imp. & p. p.) of Ultimate
Ultimating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ultimate
Ultimate (v. t. & i.) To come or bring to an end; to eventuate; to end.
Ultimate (v. t. & i.) To come or bring into use or practice.
Ultimately (adv.) As a final consequence; at last; in the end; as, afflictions often tend to correct immoral habits, and ultimately prove blessings.
Ultimation (n.) State of being ultimate; that which is ultimate, or final; ultimatum.
Ultimatums (pl. ) of Ultimatum
Ultimata (pl. ) of Ultimatum
Ultimatum (n.) A final proposition, concession, or condition; especially, the final propositions, conditions, or terms, offered by either of the parties in a diplomatic negotiation; the most favorable terms a negotiator can offer, the rejection of which usually puts an end to the hesitation.
Ultime (a.) Ultimate; final.
Ultimity (n.) The last stage or consequence; finality.
Ultimo () In the month immediately preceding the present; as, on the 1st ultimo; -- usually abbreviated to ult. Cf. Proximo.
Ultion (n.) The act of taking vengeance; revenge.
Ultra- (a.) A prefix from the Latin ultra beyond (see Ulterior), having in composition the signification beyond, on the other side, chiefly when joined with words expressing relations of place; as, ultramarine, ultramontane, ultramundane, ultratropical, etc. In other relations it has the sense of excessively, exceedingly, beyond what is common, natural, right, or proper; as, ultraconservative; ultrademocratic, ultradespotic, ultraliberal, ultraradical, etc.
Ultra (a.) Going beyond others, or beyond due limit; extreme; fanatical; uncompromising; as, an ultra reformer; ultra measures.
Ultra (n.) One who advocates extreme measures; an ultraist; an extremist; a radical.
Ultrage (n.) Outrage.
Ultraism (n.) The principles of those who advocate extreme measures, as radical reform, and the like.
Ultraist (n.) One who pushes a principle or measure to extremes; an extremist; a radical; an ultra.
Ultramarine (a.) Situated or being beyond the sea.
Ultramarine (n.) A blue pigment formerly obtained by powdering lapis lazuli, but now produced in large quantities by fusing together silica, alumina, soda, and sulphur, thus forming a glass, colored blue by the sodium polysulphides made in the fusion. Also used adjectively.
Ultramontane () Being beyond the mountains; specifically, being beyond the Alps, in respect to the one who speaks.
Ultramontane (n.) One who resides beyond the mountains, especially beyond the Alps; a foreigner.
Ultramontane (n.) One who maintains extreme views favoring the pope's supremacy. See Ultramontanism.
Ultramontanism (n.) The principles of those within the Roman Catholic Church who maintain extreme views favoring the pope's supremacy; -- so used by those living north of the Alps in reference to the Italians; -- rarely used in an opposite sense, as referring to the views of those living north of the Alps and opposed to the papal claims. Cf. Gallicanism.
Ultramontanist (n.) One who upholds ultramontanism.
Ultramundane (a.) Being beyond the world, or beyond the limits of our system.
Ultrared (a.) Situated beyond or below the red rays; as, the ultrated rays of the spectrum, which are less refrangible than the red.
Ultratropical (a.) Situated beyond, or outside of, the tropics; extratropical; also, having an excessively tropical temperature; warmer than the tropics.
Ultraviolet (a.) Lying outside the visible spectrum at its violet end; -- said of rays more refrangible than the extreme violet rays of the spectrum.
Ultra vires () Beyond power; transcending authority; -- a phrase used frequently in relation to acts or enactments by corporations in excess of their chartered or statutory rights.
Ultrazodiacal (a.) Outside the zodiac; being in that part of the heavens that is more than eight degrees from the ecliptic; as, ultrazodiacal planets, that is, those planets which in part of their orbits go beyond the zodiac.
Ultroneous (a.) Spontaneous; voluntary.
Ulula (n.) A genus of owls including the great gray owl (Ulula cinerea) of Arctic America, and other similar species. See Illust. of Owl.
Ululant (a.) Howling; wailing.
Ululated (imp. & p. p.) of Ululate
Ululating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ululate
Ululate (v. i.) To howl, as a dog or a wolf; to wail; as, ululating jackals.
Ululation (n.) A howling, as of a dog or wolf; a wailing.
Ulva (n.) A genus of thin papery bright green seaweeds including the kinds called sea lettuce.
Umbe (prep.) About.
Umbecast (v. i.) To cast about; to consider; to ponder.
Umbel (n.) A kind of flower cluster in which the flower stalks radiate from a common point, as in the carrot and milkweed. It is simple or compound; in the latter case, each peduncle bears another little umbel, called umbellet, or umbellule.
Umbellar (a.) Of or pertaining to an umbel; having the form of an umbel.
Umbellate (a.) Alt. of Umbellated
Umbellated (a.) Bearing umbels; pertaining to an umbel; umbel-like; as, umbellate plants or flowers.
Umbellet (n.) A small or partial umbel; an umbellule.
Umbellic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, certain umbelliferous plants; as, umbellic acid.
Umbellifer (n.) A plant producing an umbel or umbels.
Umbelliferone (n.) A tasteless white crystalline substance, C9H6O3, found in the bark of a certain plant (Daphne Mezereum), and also obtained by the distillation of certain gums from the Umbelliferae, as galbanum, asafetida, etc. It is analogous to coumarin. Called also hydroxy-coumarin.
Umbelliferous (a.) Producing umbels.
Umbelliferous (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order (Umbelliferae) of plants, of which the parsley, carrot, parsnip, and fennel are well-known examples.
Umbellularia (n.) A genus of deep-sea alcyonaria consisting of a cluster of large flowerlike polyps situated at the summit of a long, slender stem which stands upright in the mud, supported by a bulbous base.
Umbellule (n.) An umbellet.
Umber (n.) A brown or reddish pigment used in both oil and water colors, obtained from certain natural clays variously colored by the oxides of iron and manganese. It is commonly heated or burned before being used, and is then called burnt umber; when not heated, it is called raw umber. See Burnt umber, below.
Umber (n.) An umbrere.
Umber (n.) See Grayling, 1.
Umber (n.) An African wading bird (Scopus umbretta) allied to the storks and herons. It is dull dusky brown, and has a large occipital crest. Called also umbrette, umbre, and umber bird.
Umber (a.) Of or pertaining to umber; resembling umber; olive-brown; dark brown; dark; dusky.
Umber (v. t.) To color with umber; to shade or darken; as, to umber over one's face.
Umbery (a.) Of or pertaining to umber; like umber; as, umbery gold.
Umbilic (n.) The navel; the center.
Umbilic (n.) An umbilicus. See Umbilicus, 5 (b).
Umbilic (a.) See Umbilical, 1.
Umbilical (n.) Of or pertaining to an umbilicus, or umbilical cord; umbilic.
Umbilical (n.) Pertaining to the center; central.
Umbilicate (a.) Alt. of Umbilicated
Umbilicated (a.) Depressed in the middle, like a navel, as a flower, fruit, or leaf; navel-shaped; having an umbilicus; as, an umbilicated smallpox vesicle.
Umbilicated (a.) Supported by a stalk at the central point.
Umbilication (n.) A slight, navel-like depression, or dimpling, of the center of a rounded body; as, the umbilication of a smallpox vesicle; also, the condition of being umbilicated.
Umbilicus (n.) The depression, or mark, in the median line of the abdomen, which indicates the point where the umbilical cord separated from the fetus; the navel.
Umbilicus (n.) An ornamented or painted ball or boss fastened at each end of the stick on which manuscripts were rolled.
Umbilicus (n.) The hilum.
Umbilicus (n.) A depression or opening in the center of the base of many spiral shells.
Umbilicus (n.) Either one of the two apertures in the calamus of a feather.
Umbilicus (n.) One of foci of an ellipse, or other curve.
Umbilicus (n.) A point of a surface at which the curvatures of the normal sections are all equal to each other. A sphere may be osculatory to the surface in every direction at an umbilicus. Called also umbilic.
Umble pie () A pie made of umbles. See To eat humble pie, under Humble.
Umbles (n. pl.) The entrails and coarser parts of a deer; hence, sometimes, entrails, in general.
Umbones (pl. ) of Umbo
Umbos (pl. ) of Umbo
Umbo (n.) The boss of a shield, at or near the middle, and usually projecting, sometimes in a sharp spike.
Umbo (n.) A boss, or rounded elevation, or a corresponding depression, in a palate, disk, or membrane; as, the umbo in the integument of the larvae of echinoderms or in the tympanic membrane of the ear.
Umbo (n.) One of the lateral prominence just above the hinge of a bivalve shell.
Umbonate (a.) Alt. of Umbonated
Umbonated (a.) Having a conical or rounded projection or protuberance, like a boss.
Umbrae (pl. ) of Umbra
Umbra (n.) The conical shadow projected from a planet or satellite, on the side opposite to the sun, within which a spectator could see no portion of the sun's disk; -- used in contradistinction from penumbra. See Penumbra.
Umbra (n.) The central dark portion, or nucleus, of a sun spot.
Umbra (n.) The fainter part of a sun spot; -- now more commonly called penumbra.
Umbra (n.) Any one of several species of sciaenoid food fishes of the genus Umbrina, especially the Mediterranean species (U. cirrhosa), which is highly esteemed as a market fish; -- called also ombre, and umbrine.
Umbraculiferous (a.) Bearing something like an open umbrella.
Umbraculiform (a.) Having the form of anything that serves to shade, as a tree top, an umbrella, and the like; specifically (Bot.), having the form of an umbrella; umbrella-shaped.
Umbrage (n.) Shade; shadow; obscurity; hence, that which affords a shade, as a screen of trees or foliage.
Umbrage (n.) Shadowy resemblance; shadow.
Umbrage (n.) The feeling of being overshadowed; jealousy of another, as standing in one's light or way; hence, suspicion of injury or wrong; offense; resentment.
Umbrageous (a.) Forming or affording a shade; shady; shaded; as, umbrageous trees or foliage.
Umbrageous (a.) Not easily perceived, as if from being darkened or shaded; obscure.
Umbrageous (a.) Feeling jealousy or umbrage; taking, or disposed to take, umbrage; suspicious.
Umbrate (v. t.) To shade; to shadow; to foreshadow.
Umbratic (a.) Alt. of Umbratical
Umbratical (a.) Of or pertaining to the shade or darkness; shadowy; unreal; secluded; retired.
Umbratile (a.) Umbratic.
Umbratious (a.) Suspicious; captious; disposed to take umbrage.
Umbre (n.) See Umber.
Umbrel (n.) An umbrella.
Umbrella (n.) A shade, screen, or guard, carried in the hand for sheltering the person from the rays of the sun, or from rain or snow. It is formed of silk, cotton, or other fabric, extended on strips of whalebone, steel, or other elastic material, inserted, or fastened to, a rod or stick by means of pivots or hinges, in such a way as to allow of being opened and closed with ease. See Parasol.
Umbrella (n.) The umbrellalike disk, or swimming bell, of a jellyfish.
Umbrella (n.) Any marine tectibranchiate gastropod of the genus Umbrella, having an umbrella-shaped shell; -- called also umbrella shell.
Umbrere (n.) Alt. of Umbriere
Umbriere (n.) In ancient armor, a visor, or projection like the peak of a cap, to which a face guard was sometimes attached. This was sometimes fixed, and sometimes moved freely upon the helmet and could be raised like the beaver. Called also umber, and umbril.
Umbrette (n.) See Umber, 4.
Umbriferous (a.) Casting or making a shade; umbrageous.
Umbril (n.) A umbrere.
Umbrine (n.) See Umbra, 2.
Umbrose (a.) Shady; umbrageous.
Umbrosity (n.) The quality or state of being umbrose; shadiness.
Umhofo (n.) An African two-horned rhinoceros (Atelodus, / Rhinoceros, simus); -- called also chukuru, and white rhinoceros.
Umlaut (n.) The euphonic modification of a root vowel sound by the influence of a, u, or especially i, in the syllable which formerly followed.
Umlauted (a.) Having the umlaut; as, umlauted vowels.
Umpirage (n.) The office of an umpire; the power, right, or authority of an umpire to decide.
Umpirage (n.) The act of umpiring; arbitrament.
Umpire (n.) A person to whose sole decision a controversy or question between parties is referred; especially, one chosen to see that the rules of a game, as cricket, baseball, or the like, are strictly observed.
Umpire (n.) A third person, who is to decide a controversy or question submitted to arbitrators in case of their disagreement.
Umpired (imp. & p. p.) of Umpire
Umpiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Umpire
Umpire (v. t.) To decide as umpire; to arbitrate; to settle, as a dispute.
Umpire (v. t.) To perform the duties of umpire in or for; as, to umpire a game.
Umpire (v. i.) To act as umpire or arbitrator.
Umpireship (n.) Umpirage; arbitrament.
Umpress (n.) Female umpire.
Umquhile (adv.) Some time ago; formerly.
Umquhile (a.) Former.
Un- () An inseparable verbal prefix or particle. It is prefixed: (a) To verbs to express the contrary, and not the simple negative, of the action of the verb to which it is prefixed; as in uncoil, undo, unfold. (b) To nouns to form verbs expressing privation of the thing, quality, or state expressed by the noun, or separation from it; as in unchild, unsex. Sometimes particles and participial adjectives formed with this prefix coincide in form with compounds of the negative prefix un- (see 2d Un-); as in undone (from undo), meaning unfastened, ruined; and undone (from 2d un- and done) meaning not done, not finished. Un- is sometimes used with an intensive force merely; as in unloose.
Un- (adv.) An inseparable prefix, or particle, signifying not; in-; non-. In- is prefixed mostly to words of Latin origin, or else to words formed by Latin suffixes; un- is of much wider application, and is attached at will to almost any adjective, or participle used adjectively, or adverb, from which it may be desired to form a corresponding negative adjective or adverb, and is also, but less freely, prefixed to nouns. Un- sometimes has merely an intensive force; as in unmerciless, unremorseless.
Un- (adv.) Un- is prefixed to adjectives, or to words used adjectively.
Un- (adv.) To adjectives, to denote the absence of the quality designated by the adjective
Un- (adv.) To past particles, or to adjectives formed after the analogy of past particles, to indicate the absence of the condition or state expressed by them
Un- (adv.) To present particles which come from intransitive verbs, or are themselves employed as adjectives, to mark the absence of the activity, disposition, or condition implied by the participle; as, - ---- and the like.
Un- (adv.) Those which have acquired an opposed or contrary, instead of a merely negative, meaning; as, unfriendly, ungraceful, unpalatable, unquiet, and the like; or else an intensive sense more than a prefixed not would express; as, unending, unparalleled, undisciplined, undoubted, unsafe, and the like.
Un- (adv.) Those which have the value of independent words, inasmuch as the simple words are either not used at all, or are rarely, or at least much less frequently, used; as, unavoidable, unconscionable, undeniable, unspeakable, unprecedented, unruly, and the like; or inasmuch as they are used in a different sense from the usual meaning of the primitive, or especially in one of the significations of the latter; as, unaccountable, unalloyed, unbelieving, unpretending, unreserved, and the like; or inasmuch as they are so frequently and familiarly used that they are hardly felt to be of negative origin; as, uncertain, uneven, and the like.
Un- (adv.) Those which are anomalous, provincial, or, for some other reason, not desirable to be used, and are so indicated; as, unpure for impure, unsatisfaction for dissatisfaction, unexpressible for inexpressible, and the like.
Un- (adv.) Un- is prefixed to nouns to express the absence of, or the contrary of, that which the noun signifies; as, unbelief, unfaith, unhealth, unrest, untruth, and the like.
Unability (n.) Inability.
Unable (a.) Not able; not having sufficient strength, means, knowledge, skill, or the like; impotent' weak; helpless; incapable; -- now usually followed by an infinitive or an adverbial phrase; as, unable for work; unable to bear fatigue.
Unabled (a.) Disabled.
Unableness (n.) Inability.
Una boat () The English name for a catboat; -- so called because Una was the name of the first boat of this kind taken to England.
Unabridged (a.) Not abridged, or shortened; full; complete; entire; whole.
Unabsorbable (a.) Not absorbable; specifically (Physiol.), not capable of absorption; unable to pass by osmosis into the circulating blood; as, the unabsorbable portion of food.
Unacceptability (n.) The quality of being unacceptable; unacceptableness.
Unacceptable (a.) Not acceptable; not pleasing; not welcome; unpleasant; disagreeable; displeasing; offensive.
Unaccessible (a.) Inaccessible.
Unaccomplished (a.) Not accomplished or performed; unfinished; also, deficient in accomplishment; unrefined.
Unaccomplishment (n.) The state of being unaccomplished.
Unaccountability (n.) The quality or state of being unaccountable.
Unaccountable (a.) Not accountable or responsible; free from control.
Unaccountable (a.) Not to be accounted for; inexplicable; not consonant with reason or rule; strange; mysterious.
Unaccurate (a.) Inaccurate.
Unaccurateness (n.) Inaccuracy.
Unaccustomed (a.) Not used; not habituated; unfamiliar; unused; -- which to.
Unaccustomed (a.) Not usual; uncommon; strange; new.
Unacquaintance (n.) The quality or state of being unacquainted; want of acquaintance; ignorance.
Unacquainted (a.) Not acquainted.
Unacquainted (a.) Not usual; unfamiliar; strange.
Unacquaintedness (n.) Unacquaintance.
Unactive (a.) Inactive; listless.
Unactive (v. t.) To render inactive or listless.
Unactiveness (n.) Inactivity.
Unadmissible (a.) Alt. of Unadmittable
Unadmittable (a.) Inadmissible.
Unadulterate (a.) Alt. of Unadulterated
Unadulterated (a.) Not adulterated; pure.
Unadvisable (a.) Not advisable; inadvisable; inexpedient.
Unadvised (a.) Not prudent; not discreet; ill advised.
Unadvised (a.) Done without due consideration; wanton; rash; inconsiderate; as, an unadvised proceeding.
Unaffected (a.) Not affected or moved; destitute of affection or emotion; uninfluenced.
Unaffected (a.) Free from affectation; plain; simple; natural; real; sincere; genuine; as, unaffected sorrow.
Unafiled (a.) Undefiled.
Unagreeable (a.) Disagreeable.
Unagreeable (a.) Not agreeing or consistent; unsuitable.
Unaidable (a.) Incapable of being aided.
Unalienable (a.) Inalienable; as, unalienable rights.
Unalist (n.) An ecclesiastical who holds but one benefice; -- distinguished from pluralist.
Unallied (a.) Not allied; having no ally; having no connection or relation; as, unallied species or genera.
Unalloyed (a.) Not alloyed; not reduced by foreign admixture; unmixed; unqualified; pure; as, unalloyed metals; unalloyed happiness.
Unalmsed (a.) Not having received alms.
Unambiguity (n.) Absence of ambiguity; clearness; perspicuity.
Unambition (n.) The absence of ambition.
Unamiability (n.) The quality or state of being unamiable; moroseness.
Unamiable (a.) Not amiable; morose; ill-natured; repulsive.
Unanchor (v. t.) To loose from the anchor, as a ship.
Unaneled (a.) Not aneled; not having received extreme unction.
Unanimate (a.) Unanimous.
Unanimity (n.) The quality or state of being unanimous.
Unanimous (a.) Being of one mind; agreeing in opinion, design, or determination; consentient; not discordant or dissentient; harmonious; as, the assembly was unanimous; the members of the council were unanimous.
Unanimous (a.) Formed with unanimity; indicating unanimity; having the agreement and consent of all; agreed upon without the opposition or contradiction of any; as, a unanimous opinion; a unanimous vote.
Unanswerability (n.) The quality of being unanswerable; unanswerableness.
Unanswerable (a.) Not answerable; irrefutable; conclusive; decisive; as, he have an unanswerable argument.
Unanswered (a.) Not answered; not replied; as, an unanswered letter.
Unanswered (a.) Not refuted; as, an unanswered argument.
Unanswered (a.) Not responded to in kind; unrequited; as, unanswered affection.
Unappalled (a.) Not appalled; not frightened; dauntless; undaunted.
Unapparel (v. t.) To divest of clothing; to strip.
Unappealable (a.) Not appealable; that can not be carried to a higher tribunal by appeal; as, an unappealable suit or action.
Unappealable (a.) Not to be appealed from; -- said of a judge or a judgment that can not be overruled.
Unappliable (a.) Inapplicable.
Unapplicable (a.) Inapplicable.
Unappropriate (a.) Inappropriate; unsuitable.
Unappropriate (a.) Not appropriated.
Unappropriate (v. t.) To take from private possession; to restore to the possession or right of all; as, to unappropriate a monopoly.
Unappropriated (a.) Not specially appropriate; having not special application.
Unappropriated (a.) Not granted to any person, corporation, or the like, to the exclusion of others; as, unappropriated lands.
Unappropriated (a.) Not granted for, or applied to, any specific purpose; as, the unappropriated moneys in the treasury.
Unapproved (a.) Not approved.
Unapproved (a.) Not proved.
Unapt (a.) Inapt; slow; dull.
Unapt (a.) Unsuitable; unfit; inappropriate.
Unapt (a.) Not accustomed and not likely; not disposed.
Unaquit (a.) Unrequited.
Unargued (a.) Not argued or debated.
Unargued (a.) Not argued against; undisputed.
Unargued (a.) Not censured.
Unarm (v. t.) To disarm.
Unarm (v. i.) To puff off, or lay down, one's arms or armor.
Unarmed (a.) Not armed or armored; having no arms or weapons.
Unarmed (a.) Having no hard and sharp projections, as spines, prickles, spurs, claws, etc.
Unarted (a.) Ignorant of the arts.
Unarted (a.) Not artificial; plain; simple.
Unartful (a.) Lacking art or skill; artless.
Unartistic (a.) Inartistic.
Unascried (a.) Not descried.
Unaserved (a.) Not served.
Unassuming (a.) Not assuming; not bold or forward; not arrogant or presuming; humble; modest; retiring; as, an unassuming youth; unassuming manners.
Unassured (a.) Not assured; not bold or confident.
Unassured (a.) Not to be trusted.
Unassured (a.) Not insured against loss; as, unassured goods.
Unatonable (a.) Not capable of being brought into harmony; irreconcilable.
Unatonable (a.) Incapable of being atoned for; inexpiable.
Unattached (a.) Not attached; not adhering; having no engagement; free.
Unattached (a.) Not assigned to any company or regiment.
Unattached (a.) Not taken or arrested.
Unattentive (a.) Inattentive; careless.
Unattire (v. t.) To divest of attire; to undress.
Unau (n.) The two-toed sloth (Cholopus didactylus), native of South America. It is about two feet long. Its color is a uniform grayish brown, sometimes with a reddish tint.
Unaudienced (a.) Not given an audience; not received or heard.
Unauspicious (a.) Inauspicious.
Unauthorize (v. t.) To disown the authority of; to repudiate.
Unavoidable (a.) Not avoidable; incapable of being shunned or prevented; inevitable; necessary; as, unavoidable troubles.
Unavoidable (a.) Not voidable; incapable of being made null or void.
Unavoided (a.) Not avoided or shunned.
Unavoided (a.) Unavoidable; inevitable.
Unaware (a.) Not aware; not noticing; giving no heed; thoughtless; inattentive.
Unaware (adv.) Unawares.
Unawares (adv.) Without design or preparation; suddenly; without premeditation, unexpectedly.
Unbacked (a.) Never mounted by a rider; unbroken.
Unbacked (a.) Not supported or encouraged; not countenanced; unaided.
Unbag (v. t.) To pour, or take, or let go, out of a bag or bags.
Unbalanced (a.) Not balanced; not in equipoise; having no counterpoise, or having insufficient counterpoise.
Unbalanced (a.) Not adjusted; not settled; not brought to an equality of debt and credit; as, an unbalanced account; unbalanced books.
Unbalanced (a.) Being, or being thrown, out of equilibrium; hence, disordered or deranged in sense; unsteady; unsound; as, an unbalanced mind.
Unballast (v. t.) To free from ballast; to discharge ballast from.
Unballast (a.) Not ballasted.
Unballasted (a.) Freed from ballast; having discharged ballast.
Unballasted (a.) Not furnished with ballast; not kept steady by ballast; unsteady; as, unballasted vessels; unballasted wits.
Unbaned (a.) Wanting a band or string; unfastened.
Unbank (v. t.) To remove a bank from; to open by, or as if by, the removal of a bank.
Unbar (v. t.) To remove a bar or bars from; to unbolt; to open; as, to unbar a gate.
Unbarbed (a.) Not shaven.
Unbarbed (a.) Destitute of bards, or of reversed points, hairs, or plumes; as, an unbarded feather.
Unbark (v. t.) To deprive of the bark; to decorticate; to strip; as, to unbark a tree.
Unbark (v. t.) To cause to disembark; to land.
Unbarrel (v. t.) To remove or release from a barrel or barrels.
Unbarricade (v. t.) To unbolt; to unbar; to open.
Unbarricadoed (a.) Not obstructed by barricades; open; as, unbarricadoed streets.
Unbashful (a.) Not bashful or modest; bold; impudent; shameless.
Unbay (v. t.) To free from the restraint of anything that surrounds or incloses; to let loose; to open.
Unbe (v. t.) To cause not to be; to cause to be another.
Unbear (v. t.) To remove or loose the bearing rein of (a horse).
Unbeat (v. t.) To deliver from the form or nature of a beast.
Unbecome (v. t.) To misbecome.
Unbecoming (a.) Not becoming; unsuitable; unfit; indecorous; improper.
Unbed (v. t.) To raise or rouse from bed.
Unbedinned (a.) Not filled with din.
Unbefool (v. t.) To deliver from the state of a fool; to awaken the mind of; to undeceive.
Unbeget (v. t.) To deprive of existence.
Unbegilt (a.) Not gilded; hence, not rewarded with gold.
Unbegot (a.) Alt. of Unbegotten
Unbegotten (a.) Not begot; not yet generated; also, having never been generated; self-existent; eternal.
Unbeguiled (imp. & p. p.) of Unbeguile
Unbeguiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Unbeguile
Unbeguile (v. t.) To set free from the influence of guile; to undeceive.
Unbegun (a.) Not yet begun; also, existing without a beginning.
Unbehovely (a.) Not behooving or becoming; unseemly.
Unbeing (a.) Not existing.
Unbeknown (a.) Not known; unknown.
Unbelief (n.) The withholding of belief; doubt; incredulity; skepticism.
Unbelief (n.) Disbelief; especially, disbelief of divine revelation, or in a divine providence or scheme of redemption.
Unbelieved (a.) Not believed; disbelieved.
Unbeliever (n.) One who does not believe; an incredulous person; a doubter; a skeptic.
Unbeliever (n.) A disbeliever; especially, one who does not believe that the Bible is a divine revelation, and holds that Christ was neither a divine nor a supernatural person; an infidel; a freethinker.
Unbelieving (a.) Not believing; incredulous; doubting; distrusting; skeptical.
Unbelieving (a.) Believing the thing alleged no to be true; disbelieving; especially, believing that Bible is not a divine revelation, or that Christ was not a divine or a supernatural person.
Unbelt (v. t.) To remove or loose the belt of; to ungird.
Unbent (imp. & p. p.) of Unbend
Unbending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Unbend
Unbend (v. t.) To free from flexure; to make, or allow to become, straight; to loosen; as, to unbend a bow.
Unbend (v. t.) A remit from a strain or from exertion; to set at ease for a time; to relax; as, to unbend the mind from study or care.
Unbend (v. t.) To unfasten, as sails, from the spars or stays to which they are attached for use.
Unbend (v. t.) To cast loose or untie, as a rope.
Unbend (v. i.) To cease to be bent; to become straight or relaxed.
Unbend (v. i.) To relax in exertion, attention, severity, or the like; hence, to indulge in mirth or amusement.
Unbending (a.) Not bending; not suffering flexure; not yielding to pressure; stiff; -- applied to material things.
Unbending (a.) Unyielding in will; not subject to persuasion or influence; inflexible; resolute; -- applied to persons.
Unbending (a.) Unyielding in nature; unchangeable; fixed; -- applied to abstract ideas; as, unbending truths.
Unbending (a.) Devoted to relaxation or amusement.
Unbenevolence (n.) Absence or want of benevolence; ill will.
Unbenign (a.) Not benign; malignant.
Unbenumb (v. t.) To relieve of numbness; to restore sensation to.
Unbereaven (a.) Unbereft.
Unbereft (a.) Not bereft; not taken away.
Unbeseem (v. t.) To be unbecoming or unsuitable to; to misbecome.
Unbeseeming (a.) Unbecoming; not befitting.
Unbespeak (v. t.) To unsay; hence, to annul or cancel.
Unbethink (v. t.) To change the mind of (one's self).
Unbeware (adv.) Unawares.
Unbewitch (v. t.) To free from a spell; to disenchant.
Unbias (v. t.) To free from bias or prejudice.
Unbiased (a.) Free from bias or prejudice; unprejudiced; impartial.
Unbid (a.) Alt. of Unbidden
Unbidden (a.) Not bidden; not commanded.
Unbidden (a.) Uninvited; as, unbidden guests.
Unbidden (a.) Being without a prayer.
Unbound (imp. & p. p.) of Unbind
Unbinding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Unbind
Unbind (v. t.) To remove a band from; to set free from shackles or fastenings; to unite; to unfasten; to loose; as, unbind your fillets; to unbind a prisoner's arms; to unbind a load.
Unbishop (v. t.) To deprive, as a city, of a bishop; to deprive, as a clergyman, of episcopal dignity or rights.
Unbitted (imp. & p. p.) of Unbit
Unbitting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Unbit
Unbit (v. t.) To remove the turns of (a rope or cable) from the bits; as, to unbit a cable.
Unblemished (a.) Not blemished; pure; spotless; as, an unblemished reputation or life.
Unbless (v. t.) To deprive of blessings; to make wretched.
Unblessed (a.) Alt. of Unblest
Unblest (a.) Not blest; excluded from benediction; hence, accursed; wretched.
Unblestful (a.) Unblessed.
Unblind (v. t.) To free from blindness; to give or restore sight to; to open the eyes of.
Unblindfold (v. t.) To free from that which blindfolds.
Unbloody (a.) Not bloody.
Unblushing (a.) Not blushing; shameless.
Unbody (v. t.) To free from the body; to disembody.
Unbody (v. i.) To leave the body; to be disembodied; -- said of the soul or spirit.
Unbolt (v. t.) To remove a bolt from; to unfasten; to unbar; to open.
Unbolt (v. i.) To explain or unfold a matter; to make a revelation.
Unbone (v. t.) To deprive of bones, as meat; to bone.
Unbone (v. t.) To twist about, as if boneless.
Unbonnet (v. t.) To take a bonnet from; to take off one's bonnet; to uncover; as, to unbonnet one's head.
Unbooked (a.) Not written in a book; unrecorded.
Unboot (v. t.) To take off the boots from.
Unborn (a.) Not born; no yet brought into life; being still to appear; future.
Unborrowed (a.) Not borrowed; being one's own; native; original.
Unbosomed (imp. & p. p.) of Unbosom
Unbosoming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Unbosom
Unbosom (v. t.) To disclose freely; to reveal in confidence, as secrets; to confess; -- often used reflexively; as, to unbosom one's self.
Unbosomer (n.) One who unbosoms, or discloses.
Unbottomed (a.) Deprived of a bottom.
Unbottomed (a.) Having no bottom; bottomless.
Unbound () imp. & p. p. of Unbind.
Unboundably (adv.) Infinitely.
Unbounded (a.) Having no bound or limit; as, unbounded space; an, unbounded ambition.
Unbow (v. t.) To unbend.
Unbowed (a.) Not bent or arched; not bowed down.
Unboweled (imp. & p. p.) of Unbowel
Unbowelled () of Unbowel
Unboweling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Unbowel
Unbowelling () of Unbowel
Unbowel (v. t.) To deprive of the entrails; to disembowel.
Unbox (v. t.) To remove from a box or boxes.
Unboy (v. t.) To divest of the traits of a boy.
Unbrace (v. t.) To free from tension; to relax; to loose; as, to unbrace a drum; to unbrace the nerves.
Unbraid (v. t.) To separate the strands of; to undo, as a braid; to unravel; to disentangle.
Unbreast (v. t.) To disclose, or lay open; to unbosom.
Unbreathed (a.) Not breathed.
Unbreathed (a.) Not exercised; unpracticed.
Unbred (a.) Not begotten; unborn.
Unbred (a.) Not taught or trained; -- with to.
Unbred (a.) Not well-bred; ill-bred.
Unbreeched (imp. & p. p.) of Unbreech
Unbreching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Unbreech
Unbreech (v. t.) To remove the breeches of; to divest or strip of breeches.
Unbreech (v. t.) To free the breech of, as a cannon, from its fastenings or coverings.
Unbrewed (a.) Not made by brewing; unmixed; pure; genuine.
Unbridle (v. t.) To free from the bridle; to set loose.
Unbridled (a.) Loosed from the bridle, or as from the bridle; hence, unrestrained; licentious; violent; as, unbridled passions.
Unbroken (a.) Not broken; continuous; unsubdued; as, an unbroken colt.
Unbuckle (v. t.) To loose the buckles of; to unfasten; as, to unbuckle a shoe.
Unbuild (v. t.) To demolish; to raze.
Unbundle (v. t.) To release, as from a bundle; to disclose.
Unbung (v. t.) To remove the bung from; as, to unbung a cask.
Unburden (v. t.) To relieve from a burden.
Unburden (v. t.) To throw off, as a burden; to unload.
Unburiable (a.) Not ready or not proper to be buried.
Unburrow (v. t.) To force from a burrow; to unearth.
Unburthen (v. t.) To unburden; to unload.
Unbury (v. t.) To disinter; to exhume; fig., to disclose.
Unbusied (a.) Not required to work; unemployed; not busy.
Unbutton (v. t.) To loose the buttons of; to unfasten.
Unbuxom (a.) Disobedient.
Uncage (v. t.) To loose, or release, from, or as from, a cage.
Uncalled-for (a.) Not called for; not required or needed; improper; gratuitous; wanton.
Uncalm (v. t.) To disturb; to disquiet.
Uncamp (v. t.) To break up the camp of; to dislodge from camp.
Uncanny (a.) Not canny; unsafe; strange; weird; ghostly.
Uncanonize (v. t.) To deprive of canonical authority.
Uncanonize (v. t.) To reduce from the rank of a canonized saint.
Uncap (v. t.) To remove a cap or cover from.
Uncapable (a.) Incapable.
Uncape (v. t.) To remove a cap or cape from.
Uncapper (n.) An instrument for removing an explode cap from a cartridge shell.
Uncardinal (v. t.) To degrade from the cardinalship.
Uncared (a.) Not cared for; not heeded; -- with for.
Uncarnate (a.) Not fleshy; specifically, not made flesh; not incarnate.
Uncarnate (v. t.) To divest of flesh.
Uncart (v. t.) To take from, or set free from, a cart; to unload.
Uncase (v. t.) To take out of a case or covering; to remove a case or covering from; to uncover.
Uncase (v. t.) To strip; to flay.
Uncase (v. t.) To display, or spread to view, as a flag, or the colors of a military body.
Uncastle (v. t.) To take a castle from; to turn out of a castle.
Uncaused (a.) Having no antecedent cause; uncreated; self-existent; eternal.
Uncautelous (a.) Incautious.
Uncautious (a.) Incautious.
Uncautiously (adv.) Incautiously.
Unce (n.) A claw.
Unce (n.) An ounce; a small portion.
Unceasable (a.) Not capable of being ended; unceasing.
Uncenter (v. t.) Alt. of Uncentre
Uncentre (v. t.) To throw from its center.
Uncentury (v. t.) To remove from its actual century.
Uncertain (a.) Not certain; not having certain knowledge; not assured in mind; distrustful.
Uncertain (a.) Irresolute; inconsonant; variable; untrustworthy; as, an uncertain person; an uncertain breeze.
Uncertain (a.) Questionable; equivocal; indefinite; problematical.
Uncertain (a.) Not sure; liable to fall or err; fallible.
Uncertain (a.) To make uncertain.
Uncertainly (adv.) In an uncertain manner.
Uncertainties (pl. ) of Uncertainty
Uncertainty (n.) The quality or state of being uncertain.
Uncertainty (n.) That which is uncertain; something unknown.
Uncessant (a.) Incessant.
Unchain (v. t.) To free from chains or slavery; to let loose.
Unchancy (a.) Happening at a bad time; unseasonable; inconvenient.
Unchancy (a.) Ill-fated; unlucky.
Unchancy (a.) Unsafe to meddle with; dangerous.
Unchaplain (v. t.) To remove from a chaplaincy.
Uncharge (v. t.) To free from a charge or load; to unload.
Uncharge (v. t.) To free from an accusation; to make no charge against; to acquit.
Unchariot (v. t.) To throw out of a chariot.
Uncharitable (a.) Not charitable; contrary to charity; severe in judging; harsh; censorious; as, uncharitable opinions or zeal.
Uncharity (n.) Uncharitableness.
Uncharm (v. t.) To release from a charm, fascination, or secret power; to disenchant.
Uncharneled (imp. & p. p.) of Uncharnel
Uncharneling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Uncharnel
Uncharnel (v. t.) To remove from a charnel house; to raise from the grave; to exhume.
Unchaste (a.) Not chaste; not continent; lewd.
Unchastity (n.) The quality or state of being unchaste; lewdness; incontinence.
Uncheckable (a.) Not capable of being checked or stopped.
Unchild (v. t.) To bereave of children; to make childless.
Unchild (v. t.) To make unlike a child; to divest of the characteristics of a child.
Unchristen (v. t.) To render unchristian.
Unchristened (a.) Not christened; as, an unchristened child.
Unchristian (a.) Not Christian; not converted to the Christian faith; infidel.
Unchristian (a.) Contrary to Christianity; not like or becoming a Christian; as, unchristian conduct.
Unchristian (v. t.) To make unchristian.
Unchristianize (v. t.) To turn from the Christian faith; to cause to abandon the belief and profession of Christianity.
Unchristianly (a.) Unchristian.
Unchristianly (adv.) In an unchristian manner.
Unchristianness (n.) The quality or state of being unchristian.
Unchurch (v. t.) To expel, or cause to separate, from a church; to excommunicate.
Unchurch (v. t.) To deprive of the character, privileges, and authority of a church.
Unciae (pl. ) of Uncia
Uncia (n.) A twelfth part, as of the Roman as; an ounce.
Uncia (n.) A numerical coefficient in any particular case of the binomial theorem.
Uncial (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a certain style of letters used in ancient manuscripts, esp. in Greek and Latin manuscripts. The letters are somewhat rounded, and the upstrokes and downstrokes usually have a slight inclination. These letters were used as early as the 1st century b. c., and were seldom used after the 10th century a. d., being superseded by the cursive style.
Uncial (n.) An uncial letter.
Unciatim (adv.) Ounce by ounce.
Unciform (a.) Having the shape of a hook; being of a curved or hooked from; hooklike.
Unciform (n.) The unciform bone. See Illust. of Perissodactyla.
Uncinata (n. pl.) A division of marine chaetopod annelids which are furnished with uncini, as the serpulas and sabellas.
Uncinate (a.) Hooked; bent at the tip in the form of a hook; as, an uncinate process.
Uncinatum (n.) The unciform bone.
Uncini (pl. ) of Uncinus
Uncinus (n.) One of the peculiar minute chitinous hooks found in large numbers in the tori of tubicolous annelids belonging to the Uncinata.
Uncipher (v. t.) To decipher; as, to uncipher a letter.
Uncircumcised (n.) Not circumcised; hence, not of the Israelites.
Uncircumcision (n.) The absence or want of circumcision.
Uncircumcision (n.) People not circumcised; the Gentiles.
Uncircumstandtial (a.) Not circumstantial; not entering into minute particulars.
Uncircumstandtial (a.) Not important; not pertinent; trivial.
Uncity (v. t.) To deprive of the rank or rights of a city.
Uncivil (a.) Not civilized; savage; barbarous; uncivilized.
Uncivil (a.) Not civil; not complaisant; discourteous; impolite; rude; unpolished; as, uncivil behavior.
Uncivility (n.) Incivility.
Uncivilization (n.) The state of being uncivilized; savagery or barbarism.
Uncivilized (a.) Not civilized; not reclaimed from savage life; rude; barbarous; savage; as, the uncivilized inhabitants of Central Africa.
Uncivilized (a.) Not civil; coarse; clownish.
Uncivilty (adv.) In an uncivil manner.
Unclasp (v. t.) To loose the clasp of; to open, as something that is fastened, or as with, a clasp; as, to unclasp a book; to unclasp one's heart.
Uncle (n.) The brother of one's father or mother; also applied to an aunt's husband; -- the correlative of aunt in sex, and of nephew and niece in relationship.
Uncle (n.) A pawnbroker.
Unclean (a.) Not clean; foul; dirty; filthy.
Unclean (a.) Ceremonially impure; needing ritual cleansing.
Unclean (a.) Morally impure.
Uncleansable (a.) Incapable of being cleansed or cleaned.
Unclench (v. t.) Same as Unclinch.
Uncleship (n.) The office or position of an uncle.
Unclew (v. t.) To unwind, unfold, or untie; hence, to undo; to ruin.
Unclinch (v. t.) To cause to be no longer clinched; to open; as, to unclinch the fist.
Uncling (v. i.) To cease from clinging or adhering.
Uncloak (v. t.) To remove a cloak or cover from; to deprive of a cloak or cover; to unmask; to reveal.
Uncloak (v. i.) To remove, or take off, one's cloak.
Unclog (v. t.) To disencumber of a clog, or of difficulties and obstructions; to free from encumbrances; to set at liberty.
Uncloister (v. t.) To release from a cloister, or from confinement or seclusion; to set free; to liberate.
Unclose (v. t. & i.) To open; to separate the parts of; as, to unclose a letter; to unclose one's eyes.
Unclose (v. t. & i.) To disclose; to lay open; to reveal.
Unclosed (a.) Not separated by inclosures; open.
Unclosed (a.) Not finished; not concluded.
Unclosed (a.) Not closed; not sealed; open.
Unclothe (v. t.) To strip of clothes or covering; to make naked.
Unclothed (a.) Divested or stripped of clothing.
Unclothed (a.) Not yet clothed; wanting clothes; naked.
Uncloud (v. t.) To free from clouds; to unvail; to clear from obscurity, gloom, sorrow, or the like.
Unclue (v. t.) To unwind; to untangle.
Unclutch (v. t.) To open, as something closely shut.
Unclutch (v. t.) To disengage, as a clutch.
Unco (a.) Unknown; strange, or foreign; unusual, or surprising; distant in manner; reserved.
Unco (adv.) In a high degree; to a great extent; greatly; very.
Unco (n.) A strange thing or person.
Uncoach (v. t.) To detach or loose from a coach.
Uncock (v. t.) To let down the cock of, as a firearm.
Uncock (v. t.) To deprive of its cocked shape, as a hat, etc.
Uncock (v. t.) To open or spread from a cock or heap, as hay.
Uncoffle (v. t.) To release from a coffle.
Uncoif (v. t.) To deprive of the coif or cap.
Uncoil (v. t.) To unwind or open, as a coil of rope.
Uncoined (a.) Not coined, or minted; as, uncoined silver.
Uncoined (a.) Not fabricated; not artificial or counterfeit; natural.
Uncolt (v. t.) To unhorse.
Uncombine (v. t.) To separate, as substances in combination; to release from combination or union.
Uncomeatable (a.) Not to be come at, or reached; inaccessible.
Uncomely (a.) Not comely. -- adv. In an uncomely manner.
Uncomfortable (a.) Feeling discomfort; uneasy; as, to be uncomfortable on account of one's position.
Uncomfortable (a.) Causing discomfort; disagreeable; unpleasant; as, an uncomfortable seat or situation.
Uncommon (a.) Not common; unusual; infrequent; rare; hence, remarkable; strange; as, an uncommon season; an uncommon degree of cold or heat; uncommon courage.
Uncomplete (a.) Incomplete.
Uncomprehend (v. t.) To fail to comprehend.
Uncomprehensive (a.) Unable to comprehend.
Uncomprehensive (a.) Incomprehensible.
Uncompromising (a.) Not admitting of compromise; making no truce or concessions; obstinate; unyielding; inflexible.
Unconceivable (a.) Inconceivable.
Unconcern (n.) Want of concern; absence of anxiety; freedom from solicitude; indifference.
Unconcerned (a.) Not concerned; not anxious or solicitous; easy in mind; carelessly secure; indifferent; as, to be unconcerned at what has happened; to be unconcerned about the future.
Unconcerning (a.) Not interesting of affecting; insignificant; not belonging to one.
Unconcernment (n.) The state of being unconcerned, or of having no share or concern; unconcernedness.
Unconcludent (a.) Alt. of Unconcluding
Unconcluding (a.) Inconclusive.
Unconclusive (a.) Inconclusive.
Unconditional (a.) Not conditional limited, or conditioned; made without condition; absolute; unreserved; as, an unconditional surrender.
Unconditioned (a.) Not conditioned or subject to conditions; unconditional.
Unconditioned (a.) Not subject to condition or limitations; infinite; absolute; hence, inconceivable; incogitable.
Unconfidence (n.) Absence of confidence; uncertainty; doubt.
Uncoform (a.) Unlike.
Uncoformability (n.) The quality or state of being unconformable; unconformableness.
Uncoformability (n.) Want of parallelism between one series of strata and another, especially when due to a disturbance of the position of the earlier strata before the latter were deposited.
Unconformable (a.) Not conformable; not agreeable; not conforming.
Unconformable (a.) Not conformable; not lying in a parallel position; as, unconformable strata.
Unconformist (n.) A nonconformist.
Unconformity (n.) Want of conformity; incongruity; inconsistency.
Unconformity (n.) Want of parallelism between strata in contact.
Unconfound (v. t.) To free from a state of confusion, or of being confounded.
Unconfounded (a.) Not confounded.
Uncongeal (v. i.) To thaw; to become liquid again.
Unconning (a.) Not knowing; ignorant.
Unconning (n.) Ignorance.
Unconquerable (a.) Not conquerable; indomitable.
Unconscionable (a.) Not conscionable; not conforming to reason; unreasonable; exceeding the limits of any reasonable claim or expectation; inordinate; as, an unconscionable person or demand; unconscionable size.
Unconscionable (a.) Not guided by, or conformed to, conscience.
Unconscious (a.) Not conscious; having no consciousness or power of mental perception; without cerebral appreciation; hence, not knowing or regarding; ignorant; as, an unconscious man.
Unconscious (a.) Not known or apprehended by consciousness; as, an unconscious cerebration.
Unconscious (a.) Having no knowledge by experience; -- followed by of; as, a mule unconscious of the yoke.
Unconsecrate (v. t.) To render not sacred; to deprive of sanctity; to desecrate.
Unconsequential (a.) Inconsequential.
Unconsiderate (a.) Inconsiderate; heedless; careless.
Unconsidered (a.) Not considered or attended to; not regarded; inconsiderable; trifling.
Unconsonant (a.) Incongruous; inconsistent.
Unconspicuous (a.) Inconspicuous.
Unconstancy (n.) Inconstancy.
Unconstant (a.) Not constant; inconstant; fickle; changeable.
Unconstitutional (a.) Not constitutional; not according to, or consistent with, the terms of a constitution of government; contrary to the constitution; as, an unconstitutional law, or act of an officer.
Unconstraint (n.) Freedom from constraint; ease.
Unconsummate (a.) Not consummated; not accomplished.
Uncontestable (a.) Incontestable.
Uncontinent (a.) Not continent; incontinent.
Uncontrollable (a.) Incapable of being controlled; ungovernable; irresistible; as, an uncontrollable temper; uncontrollable events.
Uncontrollable (a.) Indisputable; irrefragable; as, an uncontrollable maxim; an uncontrollable title.
Uncontroversory (a.) Not involving controversy.
Uncontrovertible (a.) Incontrovertible.
Uncontrovertibly (adv.) Incontrovertibly.
Unconvenient (a.) Inconvenient.
Unconversion (n.) The state of being unconverted; impenitence.
Unconverted (a.) Not converted or exchanged.
Unconverted (a.) Not changed in opinion, or from one faith to another.
Unconverted (a.) Not persuaded of the truth of the Christian religion; heathenish.
Unconverted (a.) Unregenerate; sinful; impenitent.
Uncord (v. t.) To release from cords; to loosen the cord or cords of; to unfasten or unbind; as, to uncord a package.
Uncork (v. t.) To draw the cork from; as, to uncork a bottle.
Uncorrect (a.) Incorrect.
Uncorrigible (a.) Incorrigible; not capable of correction.
Uncorrupt (a.) Incorrupt.
Uncorruptible (a.) Incorruptible.
Uncorruption (n.) Incorruption.
Uncouple (v. t.) To loose, as dogs, from their couples; also, to set loose; to disconnect; to disjoin; as, to uncouple railroad cars.
Uncouple (v. i.) To roam at liberty.
Uncourtliness (n.) Absence of courtliness; rudeness; rusticity.
Uncous (a.) Hooklike; hooked.
Uncouth (a.) Unknown.
Uncouth (a.) Uncommon; rare; exquisite; elegant.
Uncouth (a.) Unfamiliar; strange; hence, mysterious; dreadful; also, odd; awkward; boorish; as, uncouth manners.
Uncovenable (a.) Not covenable; inconvenient.
Uncovenanted (a.) Not covenanted; not granted or entered into under a covenant, agreement, or contract.
Uncovenanted (a.) Not having joined in a league, or assented to a covenant or agreement, as to the Solemn League and Covenant of the Scottish people in the times of the Stuarts.
Uncovenanted (a.) Not having entered into relationship with God through the appointed means of grace; also, not promised or assured by the divine promises or conditions; as, uncovenanted mercies.
Uncovered (imp. & p. p.) of Uncover
Uncovering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Uncover
Uncover (v. t.) To take the cover from; to divest of covering; as, to uncover a box, bed, house, or the like; to uncover one's body.
Uncover (v. t.) To show openly; to disclose; to reveal.
Uncover (v. t.) To divest of the hat or cap; to bare the head of; as, to uncover one's head; to uncover one's self.
Uncover (v. i.) To take off the hat or cap; to bare the head in token of respect.
Uncover (v. i.) To remove the covers from dishes, or the like.
Uncowl (v. t.) To divest or deprive of a cowl.
Uncreate (v. t.) To deprive of existence; to annihilate.
Uncreate (a.) Uncreated; self-existent.
Uncreated (a.) Deprived of existence; annihilated.
Uncreated (a.) Not yet created; as, misery uncreated.
Uncreated (a.) Not existing by creation; self-existent; eternal; as, God is an uncreated being.
Uncreatedness (n.) The quality or state of being uncreated.
Uncredible (a.) Incredible.
Uncredit (v. t.) To cause to be disbelieved; to discredit.
Uncreditable (a.) Discreditable.
Uncrown (v. t.) To deprive of a crown; to take the crown from; hence, to discrown; to dethrone.
Uncrudded (a.) Not cruddled, or curdled.
Unction (n.) The act of anointing, smearing, or rubbing with an unguent, oil, or ointment, especially for medical purposes, or as a symbol of consecration; as, mercurial unction.
Unction (n.) That which is used for anointing; an unguent; an ointment; hence, anything soothing or lenitive.
Unction (n.) Divine or sanctifying grace.
Unction (n.) That quality in language, address, or the like, which excites emotion; especially, strong devotion; religious fervor and tenderness; sometimes, a simulated, factitious, or unnatural fervor.
Unctious (a.) Unctuous.
Unctuosity (n.) Quality or state of being unctuous.
Unctuous (a.) Of the nature or quality of an unguent or ointment; fatty; oily; greasy.
Unctuous (a.) Having a smooth, greasy feel, as certain minerals.
Unctuous (a.) Bland; suave; also, tender; fervid; as, an unctuous speech; sometimes, insincerely suave or fervid.
Unculpable (a.) Inculpable; not blameworthy.
Uncult (a.) Not cultivated; rude; illiterate.
Unculture (n.) Want of culture.
Uncunning (a.) Ignorant.
Uncunningly (adv.) Ignorantly.
Uncunningness (n.) Ignorance.
Uncurable (a.) Incurable.
Uncurably (adv.) In an uncurable manner.
Uncurbable (a.) Not capable of being curbed.
Uncurl (v. t.) To loose from curls, or ringlets; to straighten out, as anything curled or curly.
Uncurl (v. i.) To become uncurled, or straight.
Uncurrent (a.) Not current. Specifically: Not passing in common payment; not receivable at par or full value; as, uncurrent notes.
Uncurse (v. t.) To free from a curse or an execration.
Uncurtain (v. t.) To remove a curtain from; to reveal.
Unci (pl. ) of Uncus
Uncus (n.) A hook or claw.
Uncustomable (a.) Not customable, or subject to custom duties.
Uncustomed (a.) Uncustomable; also, not having paid duty or customs.
Uncut (a.) Not cut; not separated or divided by cutting or otherwise; -- said especially of books, periodicals, and the like, when the leaves have not been separated by trimming in binding.
Uncut (a.) Not ground, or otherwise cut, into a certain shape; as, an uncut diamond.
Uncuth (a.) Unknown; strange.
Uncuth (n.) A stranger.
Uncypher (v. t.) See Uncipher.
Undam (v. t.) To free from a dam, mound, or other obstruction.
Undampned (a.) Uncondemned.
Undated (a.) Rising and falling in waves toward the margin, as a leaf; waved.
Undated (a.) Not dated; having no date; of unknown age; as, an undated letter.
Undauntable (a.) Incapable of being daunted; intrepid; fearless; indomitable.
Undaunted (a.) Not daunted; not subdued or depressed by fear.
Unde (a.) Waving or wavy; -- applied to ordinaries, or division lines.
Undeadly (a.) Not subject to death; immortal.
Undeaf (v. t.) To free from deafness; to cause to hear.
Undecagon (n.) A figure having eleven angles and eleven sides.
Undecane (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon, C11H24, of the methane series, found in petroleum; -- so called from its containing eleven carbon atoms in the molecule.
Undeceive (v. t.) To cause to be no longer deceived; to free from deception, fraud, fallacy, or mistake.
Undecency (n.) Indecency.
Undecennary (a.) Occurring once in every period of eleven years; undecennial.
Undecennial (a.) Occurring or observed every eleventh year; belonging to, or continuing, a period of eleven years; undecennary; as, an undecennial festival.
Undecent (a.) Indecent.
Undecide (v. t.) To reverse or recant, as a previous decision.
Undecisive (a.) Indecisive.
Undeck (v. t.) To divest of ornaments.
Undecked (a.) Not decked; unadorned.
Undecked (a.) Not having a deck; as, an undecked vessel.
Undecolic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C11H18O2, of the propiolic acid series, obtained indirectly from undecylenic acid as a white crystalline substance.
Undecreed (a.) Not decreed.
Undecreed (a.) Reversed or nullified by decree, as something previously decreed.
Undecyl (n.) The radical regarded as characteristic of undecylic acid.
Undecylenic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid C11H20O2, homologous with acrylic acid, and obtained as a white crystalline substance by the distillation of castor oil.
Undecylic (a.) Related to, derived from, or containing, undecyl; specifically, designating that member of the fatty acids which corresponds to undecane, and is obtained as a white crystalline substance, C11H22O2.
Undeeded (a.) Not deeded or transferred by deed; as, undeeded land.
Undeeded (a.) Not made famous by any great action.
Undefatigable (a.) Indefatigable.
Undefeasible (a.) Indefeasible.
Undefine (v. t.) To make indefinite; to obliterate or confuse the definition or limitations of.
Undeify (v. t.) To degrade from the state of deity; to deprive of the character or qualities of a god; to deprive of the reverence due to a god.
Undeniable (a.) Not deniable; incapable of denial; palpably true; indisputable; obvious; as, undeniable evidence.
Undeniable (a.) Unobjectionable; unquestionably excellent; as, a person of undeniable connections.
Undeniably (adv.) In an undeniable manner.
Undepartable (a.) Incapable of being parted; inseparable.
Under (prep.) Below or lower, in place or position, with the idea of being covered; lower than; beneath; -- opposed to over; as, he stood under a tree; the carriage is under cover; a cellar extends under the whole house.
Under (prep.) Denoting relation to some thing or person that is superior, weighs upon, oppresses, bows down, governs, directs, influences powerfully, or the like, in a relation of subjection, subordination, obligation, liability, or the like; as, to travel under a heavy load; to live under extreme oppression; to have fortitude under the evils of life; to have patience under pain, or under misfortunes; to behave like a Christian under reproaches and injuries; under the pains and penalties of the law; the condition under which one enters upon an office; under the necessity of obeying the laws; under vows of chastity.
Under (prep.) Denoting relation to something that exceeds in rank or degree, in number, size, weight, age, or the like; in a relation of the less to the greater, of inferiority, or of falling short.
Under (prep.) Denoting relation to something that comprehends or includes, that represents or designates, that furnishes a cover, pretext, pretense, or the like; as, he betrayed him under the guise of friendship; Morpheus is represented under the figure of a boy asleep.
Under (prep.) Less specifically, denoting the relation of being subject, of undergoing regard, treatment, or the like; as, a bill under discussion.
Under (adv.) In a lower, subject, or subordinate condition; in subjection; -- used chiefly in a few idiomatic phrases; as, to bring under, to reduce to subjection; to subdue; to keep under, to keep in subjection; to control; to go under, to be unsuccessful; to fail.
Under (a.) Lower in position, intensity, rank, or degree; subject; subordinate; -- generally in composition with a noun, and written with or without the hyphen; as, an undercurrent; undertone; underdose; under-garment; underofficer; undersheriff.
Underact (v. t.) To perform inefficiently, as a play; to act feebly.
Underaction (n.) Subordinate action; a minor action incidental or subsidiary to the main story; an episode.
Underactor (n.) A subordinate actor.
Under-age (a.) Not having arrived at adult age, or at years of discretion; hence, raw; green; immature; boyish; childish.
Underagent (n.) A subordinate agent.
Underaid (v. t.) To aid clandestinely.
Under-arm (a.) Done (as bowling) with the arm not raised above the elbow, that is, not swung far out from the body; underhand. Cf. Over-arm and Round-Arm.
Underback (n.) A vessel which receives the wort as it flows from the mashing tub.
Underbear (v. t.) To support; to endure.
Underbear (v. t.) To line; to guard; to face; as, cloth of gold underborne with blue tinsel.
Underbearer (n.) One who supports or sustains; especially, at a funeral, one of those who bear the copse, as distinguished from a bearer, or pallbearer, who helps to hold up the pall.
Underbid (v. t.) To bid less than, as when a contract or service is offered to the lowest bidder; to offer to contract, sell, or do for a less price than.
Underbind (v. t.) To bind beneath.
Underboard (adv.) Under the board, or table; hence, secretly; unfairly; underhand. See the Note under Aboveboard.
Underbrace (v. t.) To brace, fasten, or bind underneath or below.
Underbranch (n.) A lower branch.
Underbranch (n.) A twig or branchlet.
Underbred (a.) Not thoroughly bred; ill-bred; as, an underbred fellow.
Underbrush (n.) Shrubs, small trees, and the like, in a wood or forest, growing beneath large trees; undergrowth.
Underbuilder (n.) A subordinate or assistant builder.
Underbuilding (n.) Same as Substruction.
Underbuy (v. t.) To buy at less than the real value or worth; to buy cheaper than.
Undercast (v. t.) To cast under or beneath.
Underchamberlain (n.) A deputy chamberlain of the exchequer.
Underchanter (n.) Same as Subchanter.
Underchaps (n. pl.) The lower chaps or jaw.
Undercharge (v. t.) To charge below or under; to charge less than is usual or suitable fro; as, to undercharge goods or services.
Undercharge (v. t.) To put too small a charge into; as, to undercharge a gun.
Undercharge (n.) A charge that is less than is usual or suitable.
Underclay (n.) A stratum of clay lying beneath a coal bed, often containing the roots of coal plants, especially the Stigmaria.
Undercliff (n.) A subordinate cliff on a shore, consisting of material that has fallen from the higher cliff above.
Underclothes (n. pl.) Clothes worn under others, especially those worn next the skin for warmth.
Underclothing (n.) Same as Underclothes.
Undercoat (n.) A coat worn under another; a light coat, as distinguished from an overcoat, or a greatcoat.
Undercoat (n.) A growth of short hair or fur partially concealed by a longer growth; as, a dog's undercoat.
Underconduct (n.) A lower conduit; a subterranean conduit.
Underconsumption (n.) Consumption of less than is produced; consumption of less than the usual amount.
Undercraft (n.) A sly trick or device; as, an undercraft of authors.
Undercreep (v. i.) To creep secretly or privily.
Undercrest (v. t.) To support as a crest; to bear.
Undercroft (n.) A subterranean room of any kind; esp., one under a church (see Crypt), or one used as a chapel or for any sacred purpose.
Undercry (v. i.) To cry aloud.
Undercurrent (n.) A current below the surface of water, sometimes flowing in a contrary direction to that on the surface.
Undercurrent (n.) Hence, figuratively, a tendency of feeling, opinion, or the like, in a direction contrary to what is publicly shown; an unseen influence or tendency; as, a strong undercurrent of sentiment in favor of a prisoner.
Undercurrent (a.) Running beneath the surface; hidden.
Undercut (n.) The lower or under side of a sirloin of beef; the fillet.
Undercut (v. t.) To cut away, as the side of an object, so as to leave an overhanging portion.
Underdealing (n.) Crafty, unfair, or underhand dealing; unfair practice; trickery.
Underdelve (v. t.) To delve under.
Underdig (v. t.) To dig under or beneath; to undermine.
Underditch (v. t.) To dig an underground ditches in, so as to drain the surface; to underdrain; as, to underditch a field or a farm.
Underdo (v. i.) To do less than is requisite or proper; -- opposed to overdo.
Underdo (v. t.) To do less thoroughly than is requisite; specifically, to cook insufficiently; as, to underdo the meat; -- opposed to overdo.
Underdoer (n.) One who underdoes; a shirk.
Underdolven () p. p. of Underdelve.
Underdose (n.) A dose which is less than required; a small or insufficient dose.
Underdose (v. t. & i.) To give an underdose or underdoses to; to practice giving insufficient doses.
Underdrain (n.) An underground drain or trench with openings through which the water may percolate from the soil or ground above.
Underdrain (v. t.) To drain by forming an underdrain or underdrains in; as, to underdrain land.
Underdressed (a.) Not dresses enough.
Underestimate (v. t.) To set to/ low a value on; to estimate below the truth.
Underestimate (n.) The act of underestimating; too low an estimate.
Underfaction (n.) A subordinate party or faction.
Underfaculty (n.) An inferior or subordinate faculty.
Underfarmer (n.) An assistant farmer.
Underfeed (v. t.) To feed with too little food; to supply with an insufficient quantity of food.
Underfellow (n.) An underling // mean, low fellow.
Underfilling (n.) The filling below or beneath; the under part of a building.
Underfollow (v. t.) To follow closely or immediately after.
Underfong (v. t.) To undertake; to take in hand; to receive.
Underfong (v. t.) To insnare; to circumvent.
Underfong (v. t.) To sustain; to support; to guard.
Underfoot (adv.) Under the feet; underneath; below. See Under foot, under Foot, n.
Underfoot (a.) Low; base; abject; trodden down.
Underfringe (n.) A lower fringe; a fringe underneath something.
Underfurnish (v. t.) To supply with less than enough; to furnish insufficiently.
Underfurrow (v. t.) To cover as under a furrow; to plow in; as, to underfurrow seed or manure.
Under-garment (n.) A garment worn below another.
Underget (v. t.) To get under or beneath; also, to understand.
Undergird (v. t.) To blind below; to gird round the bottom.
Underglaze (a.) Applied under the glaze, that is, before the glaze, that is, before the glaze is put on; fitted to be so applied; -- said of colors in porcelain painting.
Underwent (imp.) of Undergo
Undergone (p. p.) of Undergo
Undergoing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Undergo
Undergo (v. t.) To go or move below or under.
Undergo (v. t.) To be subjected to; to bear up against; to pass through; to endure; to suffer; to sustain; as, to undergo toil and fatigue; to undergo pain, grief, or anxiety; to undergothe operation of amputation; food in the stomach undergoes the process of digestion.
Undergo (v. t.) To be the bearer of; to possess.
Undergo (v. t.) To undertake; to engage in; to hazard.
Undergo (v. t.) To be subject or amenable to; to underlie.
Undergod (n.) A lower or inferio/ god; a subordinate deity; a demigod.
Undergore (v. t.) To gore underneath.
Undergown (n.) A gown worn under another, or under some other article of dress.
Undergraduate (n.) A member of a university or a college who has not taken his first degree; a student in any school who has not completed his course.
Undergraduate (a.) Of or pertaining to an undergraduate, or the body of undergraduates.
Undergraduateship (n.) The position or condition of an undergraduate.
Undergroan (v. t.) To groan beneath.
Underground (n.) The place or space beneath the surface of the ground; subterranean space.
Underground (a.) Being below the surface of the ground; as, an underground story or apartment.
Underground (a.) Done or occurring out of sight; secret.
Underground (adv.) Beneath the surface of the earth.
Undergrove (n.) A grove of shrubs or low trees under taller ones.
Undergrow (v. i.) To grow to an inferior, or less than the usual, size or height.
Undergrow (a.) Undergrown.
Undergrown (a.) Of small stature; not grown to a full height or size.
Undergrowth (n.) That which grows under trees; specifically, shrubs or small trees growing among large trees.
Undergrub (v. t.) To undermine.
Underhand (a.) Secret; clandestine; hence, mean; unfair; fraudulent.
Underhand (a.) Done, as pitching, with the hand lower than the shoulder, or, as bowling, with the hand lower than elbow.
Underhand (adv.) By secret means; in a clandestine manner; hence, by fraud; unfairly.
Underhand (adv.) In an underhand manner; -- said of pitching or bowling.
Underhanded (a.) Underhand; clandestine.
Underhanded (a.) Insufficiently provided with hands or workers; short-handed; sparsely populated.
Underhandedly (adv.) In an underhand manner.
Underhang (v. t. & i.) To hang under or down; to suspend.
Underhangman (n.) An assistant or deputy hangman.
Underhead (n.) A blockhead, or stupid person; a dunderhead.
Underheave (v. i.) To heave or lift from below.
Underhew (v. t.) To hew less than is usual or proper; specifically, to hew, as a piece of timber which should be square, in such a manner that it appears to contain a greater number of cubic feet than it really does contain.
Underhonest (a.) Not entirely honest.
Underhung (a.) Resting on a track at the bottom, instead of being suspended; -- said of a sliding door.
Underhung (a.) Having the lower jaw projecting.
Underjaw (n.) The lower jaw.
Underjoin (v. t.) To join below or beneath; to subjoin.
Underkeep (v. t.) To keep under, or in subjection; to suppress.
Underkeeper (n.) A subordinate keeper or guardian.
Underkind (n.) An inferior kind.
Underkingdom (n.) A subordinate or dependent kingdom.
Underlaborer (n.) An assistant or subordinate laborer.
Underlaid (a.) Laid or placed underneath; also, having something laid or lying underneath.
Underlay (v. t.) To lay beneath; to put under.
Underlay (v. t.) To raise or support by something laid under; as, to underlay a cut, plate, or the like, for printing. See Underlay, n., 2.
Underlay (n.) To put a tap on (a shoe).
Underlay (v. i.) To incline from the vertical; to hade; -- said of a vein, fault, or lode.
Underlay (n.) The inclination of a vein, fault, or lode from the vertical; a hade; -- called also underlie.
Underlay (n.) A thickness of paper, pasteboard, or the like, placed under a cut, or stereotype plate, or under type, in the from, to bring it, or any part of it, to the proper height; also, something placed back of a part of the tympan, so as to secure the right impression.
Underlayer (n.) One who, or that which, underlays or is underlaid; a lower layer.
Underlayer (n.) A perpendicular shaft sunk to cut the lode at any required depth.
Underleaf (n.) A prolific sort of apple, good for cider.
Underlease (n.) A lease granted by a tenant or lessee; especially, a lease granted by one who is himself a lessee for years, for any fewer or less number of years than he himself holds; a sublease.
Underlet (v. t.) To let below the value.
Underlet (v. t.) To let or lease at second hand; to sublet.
Underletter (n.) A tenant or lessee who grants a lease to another.
Underlie (v. t.) To lie under; to rest beneath; to be situated under; as, a stratum of clay underlies the surface gravel.
Underlie (v. t.) To be at the basis of; to form the foundation of; to support; as, a doctrine underlying a theory.
Underlie (v. t.) To be subject or amenable to.
Underlie (v. i.) To lie below or under.
Underlie (n.) See Underlay, n., 1.
Underline (v. t.) To mark a line below, as words; to underscore.
Underline (v. t.) To influence secretly.
Underling (n.) An inferior person or agent; a subordinate; hence, a mean, sorry fellow.
Underlip (n.) The lower lip.
Underlock (n.) A lock of wool hanging under the belly of a sheep.
Underlocker (n.) A person who inspects a mine daily; -- called also underviewer.
Underlying (a.) Lying under or beneath; hence, fundamental; as, the underlying strata of a locality; underlying principles.
Undermanned (a.) Insufficiently furnished with men; short-handed.
Undermasted (a.) Having masts smaller than the usual dimension; -- said of vessels.
Undermaster (n.) A master subordinate to the principal master; an assistant master.
Undermatch (n.) One who is not a match for another.
Undermeal (n.) The inferior, or after, part of the day; the afternoon.
Undermeal (n.) Hence, something occurring or done in the afternoon; esp., an afternoon meal; supper; also, an afternoon nap; a siesta.
Undermine (v. t.) To excavate the earth beneath, or the part of, especially for the purpose of causing to fall or be overthrown; to form a mine under; to sap; as, to undermine a wall.
Undermine (v. t.) Fig.: To remove the foundation or support of by clandestine means; to ruin in an underhand way; as, to undermine reputation; to undermine the constitution of the state.
Underminer (n.) One who undermines.
Underminister (v. t.) To serve, or minister to, in a subordinate relation.
Underministry (n.) A subordinate or inferior ministry.
Undermirth (n.) Suppressed or concealed mirth.
Undermoneyed (a.) Bribed.
Undermost (a.) Lowest, as in place, rank, or condition.
Undern (n.) The time between; the time between sunrise and noon; specifically, the third hour of the day, or nine o'clock in the morning, according to ancient reckoning; hence, mealtime, because formerly the principal meal was eaten at that hour; also, later, the afternoon; the time between dinner and supper.
Underneath (adv.) Beneath; below; in a lower place; under; as, a channel underneath the soil.
Underneath (prep.) Under; beneath; below.
Underniceness (n.) A want of niceness; indelicacy; impropriety.
Undernom (imp.) of Undernime
Undernime (v. t.) To receive; to perceive.
Undernime (v. t.) To reprove; to reprehend.
Underofficer (n.) A subordinate officer.
Underpart (n.) A subordinate part.
Underpay (v. t.) To pay inadequately.
Underpeep (v. t.) To peep under.
Underpeer (v. t.) To peer under.
Underpeopled (a.) Not fully peopled.
Underpight () imp. of Underpitch.
Underpinned (imp. & p. p.) of Underpin
Underpinning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Underpin
Underpin (v. t.) To lay stones, masonry, etc., under, as the sills of a building, on which it is to rest.
Underpin (v. t.) To support by some solid foundation; to place something underneath for support.
Underpinning (n.) The act of one who underpins; the act of supporting by stones, masonry, or the like.
Underpinning (n.) That by which a building is underpinned; the material and construction used for support, introduced beneath a wall already constructed.
Underpinning (n.) The foundation, esp. of a frame house.
Underpight (imp.) of Underpitch
Underpitch (v. t.) To fill underneath; to stuff.
Underplay (v. i.) To play in a subordinate, or in an inferior manner; to underact a part.
Underplay (v. i.) To play a low card when holding a high one, in the hope of a future advantage.
Underplay (n.) The act of underplaying.
Underplot (n.) A series of events in a play, proceeding collaterally with the main story, and subservient to it.
Underplot (n.) A clandestine scheme; a trick.
Underpoise (v. t.) To weigh, estimate, or rate below desert; to undervalue.
Underpossessor (n.) One who possesses or holds anything subject to the superior of another.
Underpraise (v. t.) To praise below desert.
Underprize (v. t.) To undervalue; to underestimate.
Underproduction (n.) The production of less than is demanded or of less than the usual supply.
Underproof (a.) Containing less alcohol than proof spirit. See Proof spirit, under Spirit.
Underprop (v. t.) To prop from beneath; to put a prop under; to support; to uphold.
Underproportioned (a.) Of inadequate or inferior proportions; small; poor.
Underproper (n.) One who, or that which, underprops or supports.
Underpull (v. i.) To exert one's influence secretly.
Underpuller (n.) One who underpulls.
Underput (v. t.) To put or send under.
Underrate (v. t.) To rate too low; to rate below the value; to undervalue.
Underrate (n.) A price less than the value; as, to sell a thing at an underrate.
Underreckon (v. t.) To reckon below what is right or proper; to underrate.
Underrun (v. t.) To run or pass under; especially (Naut.), to pass along and under, as a cable, for the purpose of taking it in, or of examining it.
Undersail (v. i.) To sail alongshore.
Undersailed (a.) Inadequately equipped with sails.
Undersaturated (a.) Not fully saturated; imperfectly saturated.
Undersay (v. t.) To say by way of derogation or contradiction.
Underscore (v. t.) To draw a mark or line under; to underline.
Undersecretary (n.) A secretary who is subordinate to the chief secretary; an assistant secretary; as, an undersecretary of the Treasury.
Undersell (v. t.) To sell the same articles at a lower price than; to sell cheaper than.
Underservant (n.) An inferior servant.
Underset (v. t.) To prop or support.
Underset (n.) Undercurrent.
Undersetter (n.) One who, or that which, undersets or supports; a prop; a support; a pedestal.
Undersetting (n.) Something set or built under as a support; a pedestal.
Undershapen (a.) Under the usual shape or size; small; dwarfish.
Undersheriff (n.) A sheriff's deputy.
Undersheriffry (n.) Undershrievalty.
Undershirt (n.) A shirt worn next the skin, under another shirt; -- called also undervest.
Undershoot (v. t.) To shoot short of (a mark).
Undershot (a.) Having the lower incisor teeth projecting beyond the upper ones, as in the bulldog.
Undershot (a.) Moved by water passing beneath; -- said of a water wheel, and opposed to overshot; as, an undershot wheel.
Undershrievalty (n.) The office or position of an undersheriff.
Undershrieve (n.) A low shrub; a woody plant of low stature.
Undershrub (a.) Partly shrublike.
Undershut (a.) Closed from beneath.
Underside (n.) The lower or lowest side of anything.
Undersign (v. t.) To write one's name at the foot or end of, as a letter or any legal instrument.
Undersized (a.) Of a size less than is common.
Underskinker (n.) Undertapster.
Underskirt (n.) A petticoat; the foundation skirt of a draped dress.
Undersky (n.) The lower region of the sky.
Undersleeve (n.) A sleeve of an under-garment; a sleeve worn under another,
Undersoil (n.) The soil beneath the surface; understratum; subsoil.
Undersold () p. p. of Undersell.
Undersong (n.) The burden of a song; the chorus; the refrain.
Undersong (n.) Accompanying strain; subordinate and underlying meaning; accompaniment; undertone.
Undersparred (a.) Having spars smaller than the usual dimension; -- said of vessels.
Underspend (v. t.) To spend less than.
Undersphere (n.) A sphere which is smaller than, and in its movements subject to, another; a satellite.
Undersphere (n.) An inferior sphere, or field of action.
Underspore (v. t.) To raise with a spar, or piece of wood, used as a lever.
Understair (a.) Of or pertaining to the kitchen, or the servants' quarters; hence, subordinate; menial.
Understairs (n.) The basement or cellar.
Understood (imp. & p. p.) of Understand
Understanded () of Understand
Understanding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Understand
Understand (v. t.) To have just and adequate ideas of; to apprehended the meaning or intention of; to have knowledge of; to comprehend; to know; as, to understand a problem in Euclid; to understand a proposition or a declaration; the court understands the advocate or his argument; to understand the sacred oracles; to understand a nod or a wink.
Understand (v. t.) To be apprised, or have information, of; to learn; to be informed of; to hear; as, I understand that Congress has passed the bill.
Understand (v. t.) To recognize or hold as being or signifying; to suppose to mean; to interpret; to explain.
Understand (v. t.) To mean without expressing; to imply tacitly; to take for granted; to assume.
Understand (v. t.) To stand under; to support.
Understand (v. i.) To have the use of the intellectual faculties; to be an intelligent being.
Understand (v. i.) To be informed; to have or receive knowledge.
Understandable (a.) Capable of being understood; intelligible.
Understander (n.) One who understands, or knows by experience.
Understanding (a.) Knowing; intelligent; skillful; as, he is an understanding man.
Understanding (n.) The act of one who understands a thing, in any sense of the verb; knowledge; discernment; comprehension; interpretation; explanation.
Understanding (n.) An agreement of opinion or feeling; adjustment of differences; harmony; anything mutually understood or agreed upon; as, to come to an understanding with another.
Understanding (n.) The power to understand; the intellectual faculty; the intelligence; the rational powers collectively conceived an designated; the higher capacities of the intellect; the power to distinguish truth from falsehood, and to adapt means to ends.
Understanding (n.) Specifically, the discursive faculty; the faculty of knowing by the medium or use of general conceptions or relations. In this sense it is contrasted with, and distinguished from, the reason.
Understandingly (adv.) In an understanding manner; intelligibly; with full knowledge or comprehension; intelligently; as, to vote upon a question understandingly; to act or judge understandingly.
Understate (v. t.) To state or represent less strongly than may be done truthfully.
Understatement (n.) The act of understating, or the condition of being understated; that which is understated; a statement below the truth.
Understock (v. t.) To supply insufficiently with stock.
Understood () imp. & p. p. of Understand.
Understrapper (n.) A petty fellow; an inferior agent; an underling.
Understrapping (a.) Becoming an understrapper; subservient.
Understrata (pl. ) of Understratum
Understratums (pl. ) of Understratum
Understratum (n.) The layer, or stratum, of earth on which the mold, or soil, rests; subsoil.
Understroke (v. t.) To underline or underscore.
Understudy (v. t. & i.) To study, as another actor's part, in order to be his substitute in an emergency; to study another actor's part.
Understudy (n.) One who studies another's part with a view to assuming it in an emergency.
Undersuit (n.) A suit worn under another suit; a suit of underclothes.
Undertakable (a.) Capable of being undertaken; practicable.
Undertook (imp.) of Undertake
Undertaken (p. p.) of Undertake
Undertaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Undertake
Undertake (v. t.) To take upon one's self; to engage in; to enter upon; to take in hand; to begin to perform; to set about; to attempt.
Undertake (v. t.) Specifically, to take upon one's self solemnly or expressly; to lay one's self under obligation, or to enter into stipulations, to perform or to execute; to covenant; to contract.
Undertake (v. t.) Hence, to guarantee; to promise; to affirm.
Undertake (v. t.) To assume, as a character.
Undertake (v. t.) To engage with; to attack.
Undertake (v. t.) To have knowledge of; to hear.
Undertake (v. t.) To take or have the charge of.
Undertake (v. i.) To take upon one's self, or assume, any business, duty, or province.
Undertake (v. i.) To venture; to hazard.
Undertake (v. i.) To give a promise or guarantee; to be surety.
Undertaker (n.) One who undertakes; one who engages in any project or business.
Undertaker (n.) One who stipulates or covenants to perform any work for another; a contractor.
Undertaker (n.) Specifically, one who takes the charge and management of funerals.
Undertaking (n.) The act of one who undertakes, or engages in, any project or business.
Undertaking (n.) That which is undertaken; any business, work, or project which a person engages in, or attempts to perform; an enterprise.
Undertaking (n.) Specifically, the business of an undertaker, or the management of funerals.
Undertaking (n.) A promise or pledge; a guarantee.
Undertapster (n.) Assistant to a tapster.
Undertaxed (a.) Taxed too little, or at a lower rate than others.
Undertenancy (n.) Tenancy or tenure under a tenant or lessee; the tenure of an undertenant.
Undertenant (n.) The tenant of a tenant; one who holds lands or tenements of a tenant or lessee.
Underthing (n.) Something that is inferior and of little worth.
Undertide (n.) Alt. of Undertime
Undertime (n.) The under or after part of the day; undermeal; evening.
Undertone (n.) A low or subdued tone or utterance; a tone less loud than usual.
Undertook () imp. of Undertake.
Undertow (n.) The current that sets seaward near the bottom when waves are breaking upon the shore.
Undertreasurer (n.) An assistant treasurer.
Underturn (v. t.) To turn upside down; to subvert; to upset.
Undervaluation (n.) The act of undervaluing; a rate or value not equal to the real worth.
Undervalue (v. t.) To value, rate, or estimate below the real worth; to depreciate.
Undervalue (v. t.) To esteem lightly; to treat as of little worth; to hold in mean estimation; to despise.
Undervalue (n.) A low rate or price; a price less than the real worth; undervaluation.
Undervaluer (n.) One who undervalues.
Underverse (n.) The lower or second verse.
Undervest (n.) An undershirt.
Underviewer (n.) See Underlooker.
Underwear (n.) That which is worn under the outside clothing; underclothes.
Underween (v. t.) To undervalue.
Underwent () imp. of Undergo.
Underwing (n.) One of the posterior wings of an insect.
Underwing (n.) Any one of numerous species of noctuid moths belonging to Catocala and allied genera, in which the hind wings are banded with red and black or other conspicuous colors. Many of the species are called red underwing.
Underwitted (a.) Weak in intellect; half-witted; silly.
Underwood (n.) Small trees and bushes that grow among large trees; coppice; underbrush; -- formerly used in the plural.
Underworked (imp. & p. p.) of Underwork
Underwrought () of Underwork
Underworking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Underwork
Underwork (v. t.) To injure by working secretly; to destroy or overthrow by clandestine measure; to undermine.
Underwork (v. t.) To expend too little work upon; as, to underwork a painting.
Underwork (v. t.) To do like work at a less price than; as, one mason may underwork another.
Underwork (v. i.) To work or operate in secret or clandestinely.
Underwork (v. i.) To do less work than is proper or suitable.
Underwork (v. i.) To do work for a less price than current rates.
Underwork (n.) Inferior or subordinate work; petty business.
Underworker (n.) One who underworks.
Underworker (n.) An inferior or subordinate workman.
Underworld (n.) The lower of inferior world; the world which is under the heavens; the earth.
Underworld (n.) The mythological place of departed souls; Hades.
Underworld (n.) The portion of the world which is below the horizon; the opposite side of the world; the antipodes.
Underworld (n.) The inferior part of mankind.
Underwrote (imp.) of Underwrite
Underwrit () of Underwrite
Underwritten (p. p.) of Underwrite
Underwrit () of Underwrite
Underwriting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Underwrite
Underwrite (v. t.) To write under something else; to subscribe.
Underwrite (v. t.) To subscribe one's name to for insurance, especially for marine insurance; to write one's name under, or set one's name to, as a policy of insurance, for the purpose of becoming answerable for loss or damage, on consideration of receiving a certain premium per cent; as, individuals, as well as companies, may underwrite policies of insurance.
Underwrite (v. i.) To practice the business of insuring; to take a risk of insurance on a vessel or the like.
Underwriter (n.) One who underwrites his name to the conditions of an insurance policy, especially of a marine policy; an insurer.
Underwriting (n.) The business of an underwriter,
Underyoke (v. t.) To subject to the yoke; to make subject.
Undeserve (v. t.) To fail to deserve.
Undeserver (n.) One of no merit; one who is nor deserving or worthy.
Undesigning (a.) Having no artful, ulterior, or fraudulent purpose; sincere; artless; simple.
Undestroyable (a.) Indestructible.
Undeterminable (a.) Not determinable; indeterminable.
Undeterminate (a.) Nor determinate; not settled or certain; indeterminate.
Undetermination (n.) Indetermination.
Undevil (v. t.) To free from possession by a devil or evil spirit; to exorcise.
Undevotion (n.) Absence or want of devotion.
Undid () imp. of Undo.
Undifferentiated (a.) Not differentiated; specifically (Biol.), homogenous, or nearly so; -- said especially of young or embryonic tissues which have not yet undergone differentiation (see Differentiation, 3), that is, which show no visible separation into their different structural parts.
Undigenous (a.) Generated by water.
Undigestible (a.) Indigestible.
Undight (v. t.) To put off; to lay aside, as a garment.
Undigne (a.) Unworthy.
Undine (n.) One of a class of fabled female water spirits who might receive a human soul by intermarrying with a mortal.
Undiocesed (a.) Unprovided with a diocese; having no diocese.
Undirect (v. t.) To misdirect; to mislead.
Undirect (a.) Indirect.
Undirected (a.) Not directed; not guided; left without direction.
Undirected (a.) Not addressed; not superscribed, as a letter.
Undirected (a.) Misdirected; misled; led astray.
Undirectly (adv.) Indirectly.
Undiscerning (n.) Want of discernment.
Undisclose (v. t.) To keep close or secret.
Undiscreet (a.) Indiscreet.
Undispensable (a.) Indispensable.
Undispensable (a.) Unavoidable; inevitable.
Undispensable (a.) Not to be freed by dispensation.
Undispensed (a.) Not dispensed.
Undispensed (a.) Not freed by dispensation.
Undisposedness (n.) Indisposition; disinclination.
Undisputable (a.) Indisputable.
Undistinctive (a.) Making no distinctions; not discriminating; impartial.
Undistinctly (adv.) Indistinctly.
Undivided (a.) Not divided; not separated or disunited; unbroken; whole; continuous; as, plains undivided by rivers or mountains.
Undivided (a.) Not set off, as a share in a firm; not made actually separate by division; as, a partner, owning one half in a firm, is said to own an undivided half so long as the business continues and his share is not set off to him.
Undivided (a.) Not directed or given to more than one object; as, undivided attention or affection.
Undivided (a.) Not lobed, cleft, or branched; entire.
Undividual (a.) Indivisible.
Undivisible (a.) Indivisible.
Undo (v. t.) To reverse, as what has been done; to annul; to bring to naught.
Undo (v. t.) To loose; to open; to take to piece; to unfasten; to untie; hence, to unravel; to solve; as, to undo a knot; to undo a puzzling question; to undo a riddle.
Undo (v. t.) To bring to poverty; to impoverish; to ruin, as in reputation, morals, hopes, or the like; as, many are undone by unavoidable losses, but more undo themselves by vices and dissipation, or by indolence.
Undock (v. t.) To take out of dock; as, to undock a ship.
Undoer (n.) One who undoes anything; especially, one who ruins another.
Undoing (n.) The reversal of what has been done.
Undoing (n.) Ruin.
Undomesticate (v. t.) To make wild or roving.
Undone () p. p. of Undo.
Undone (a.) Not done or performed; neglected.
Undouble (v. t.) To unfold, or render single.
Undoubtable (a.) Indubitable.
Undoubted (a.) Not doubted; not called in question; indubitable; indisputable; as, undoubted proof; undoubted hero.
Undrape (v. t.) To strip of drapery; to uncover or unveil.
Undraw (v. t.) To draw aside or open; to draw back.
Undreamed (a.) Alt. of Undreamt
Undreamt (a.) Not dreamed, or dreamed of; not th/ught of; not imagined; -- often followed by of.
Undress (v. t.) To divest of clothes; to strip.
Undress (v. t.) To divest of ornaments to disrobe.
Undress (v. t.) To take the dressing, or covering, from; as, to undress a wound.
Undress (n.) A loose, negligent dress; ordinary dress, as distinguished from full dress.
Undress (n.) An authorized habitual dress of officers and soldiers, but not full-dress uniform.
Undubitable (a.) Indubitable; as, an undubitable principle.
Undue (a.) Not due; not yet owing; as, an undue debt, note, or bond.
Undue (a.) Not right; not lawful or legal; improper; as, an undue proceeding.
Undue (a.) Not agreeable to a rule or standard, or to duty; disproportioned; excessive; immoderate; inordinate; as, an undue attachment to forms; an undue rigor in the execution of law.
Undueness (n.) The quality of being undue.
Unduke (v. t.) To deprive of dukedom.
Undulant (a.) Undulating.
Undulary (a.) Moving like waves; undulatory.
Undulate (a.) Same as Undulated.
Undulated (imp. & p. p.) of Undulate
Undulating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Undulate
Undulate (v. t.) To cause to move backward and forward, or up and down, in undulations or waves; to cause to vibrate.
Undulate (v. i.) To move in, or have, undulations or waves; to vibrate; to wave; as, undulating air.
Undulated (a.) Resembling, or in the nature of, waves; having a wavy surface; undulatory.
Undulated (a.) Waved obtusely up and down, near the margin, as a leaf or corolla; wavy.
Undulated (a.) Formed with elevations and depressions resembling waves; having wavelike color markings; as, an undulated shell.
Undulating (a.) Rising and falling like waves; resembling wave form or motion; undulatory; rolling; wavy; as, an undulating medium; undulating ground.
Undulation (n.) The act of undulating; a waving motion or vibration; as, the undulations of a fluid, of water, or of air; the undulations of sound.
Undulation (n.) A wavy appearance or outline; waviness.
Undulation (n.) The tremulous tone produced by a peculiar pressure of the finger on a string, as of a violin.
Undulation (n.) The pulsation caused by the vibrating together of two tones not quite in unison; -- called also beat.
Undulation (n.) A motion to and fro, up and down, or from side to side, in any fluid or elastic medium, propagated continuously among its particles, but with no translation of the particles themselves in the direction of the propagation of the wave; a wave motion; a vibration.
Undulationist (n.) One who advocates the undulatory theory of light.
Undulative (a.) Consisting in, or accompanied by, undulations; undulatory.
Undulatory (a.) Moving in the manner of undulations, or waves; resembling the motion of waves, which successively rise or swell rise or swell and fall; pertaining to a propagated alternating motion, similar to that of waves.
Undull (v. t.) To remove the dullness of; to clear.
Undulous (a.) Undulating; undulatory.
Unduly (adv.) In an undue manner.
Undumpish (v. t.) To relieve from the dumps.
Undust (v. t.) To free from dust.
Undwellable (a.) Uninhabitable.
Undwelt (a.) Not lived (in); -- with in.
Undying (a.) Not dying; imperishable; unending; immortal; as, the undying souls of men.
Uneared (a.) Not eared, or plowed.
Unearned (a.) Not earned; not gained by labor or service.
Unearthed (imp. & p. p.) of Unearth
Unearthing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Unearth
Unearth (v. t.) To drive or draw from the earth; hence, to uncover; to bring out from concealment; to bring to light; to disclose; as, to unearth a secret.
Unearthly (a.) Not terrestrial; supernatural; preternatural; hence, weird; appalling; terrific; as, an unearthly sight or sound.
Unease (n.) Want of ease; uneasiness.
Uneasity (adv.) In an easy manner.
Uneasiness (n.) The quality or state of being uneasy; restlessness; disquietude; anxiety.
Uneasiness (n.) The quality of making uneasy; discomfort; as, the uneasiness of the road.
Uneasy (a.) Not easy; difficult.
Uneasy (a.) Restless; disturbed by pain, anxiety, or the like; disquieted; perturbed.
Uneasy (a.) Not easy in manner; constrained; stiff; awkward; not graceful; as, an uneasy deportment.
Uneasy (a.) Occasioning want of ease; constraining; cramping; disagreeable; unpleasing.
Uneath (a.) Not easy; difficult; hard.
Uneath (adv.) Not easily; hardly; scarcely.
Unedge (v. t.) To deprive of the edge; to blunt.
Unefectual (a.) Ineffectual.
Unelastic (a.) Not elastic; inelastic.
Unelasticity (n.) Inelasticity.
Unelegant (a.) Inelegant.
Uneligible (a.) Ineligible.
Unembarrassed (a.) Not embarrassed.
Unembarrassed (a.) Not perplexed in mind; not confused; as, the speaker appeared unembarrassed.
Unembarrassed (a.) Free from pecuniary difficulties or encumbrances; as, he and his property are unembarrassed.
Unembarrassed (a.) Free from perplexing connection; as, the question comes into court unembarrassed with irrelevant matter.
Unembarrassment (n.) Freedom from embarrassment.
Unembodied (a.) Free from a corporeal body; disembodied; as, unembodied spirits.
Unembodied (a.) Not embodied; not collected into a body; not yet organized; as, unembodied militia.
Unempirically (adv.) Not empirically; without experiment or experience.
Unemployed (a.) Not employed in manual or other labor; having no regular work.
Unemployed (a.) Not invested or used; as, unemployed capital.
Unencumber (v. t.) To free from incumbrance; to disencumber.
Unendly (a.) Unending; endless.
Unentangle (v. t.) To disentangle.
Unequal (a.) Not equal; not matched; not of the same size, length, breadth, quantity, strength, talents, acquirements, age, station, or the like; as, the fingers are of unequal length; peers and commoners are unequal in rank.
Unequal (a.) Ill balanced or matched; disproportioned; hence, not equitable; partial; unjust; unfair.
Unequal (a.) Not uniform; not equable; irregular; uneven; as, unequal pulsations; an unequal poem.
Unequal (a.) Not adequate or sufficient; inferior; as, the man was unequal to the emergency; the timber was unequal to the sudden strain.
Unequal (a.) Not having the two sides or the parts symmetrical.
Unequalable (a.) Not capable of being equaled or paralleled.
Unequaled (a.) Not equaled; unmatched; unparalleled; unrivaled; exceeding; surpassing; -- in a good or bad sense; as, unequaled excellence; unequaled ingratitude or baseness.
Unequally (adv.) In an unequal manner.
Unequalness (n.) The quality or state of being unequal; inequality; unevenness.
Unequitable (a.) Inequitable.
Unequity (n.) Want of equity or uprightness; injustice; wickedness; iniquity.
Unequivocal (a.) Not equivocal; not doubtful; not ambiguous; evident; sincere; plain; as, unequivocal evidence; unequivocal words.
Unerring (a.) Committing no mistake; incapable or error or failure certain; sure; unfailing; as, the unerring wisdom of God.
Unerringly (adv.) In an unerring manner.
Unessential (a.) Not essential; not of prime importance; not indispensable; unimportant.
Unessential (a.) Void of essence, or real being.
Unessential (n.) Something not constituting essence, or something which is not of absolute necessity; as, forms are among the unessentials of religion.
Unessentially (adv.) In an unessential manner.
Unestablish (v. t.) To disestablish.
Ubeth (adv.) Alt. of Unethes
Unethes (adv.) With difficulty; scarcely. See Uneath.
Uneven (a.) Not even; not level; not uniform; rough; as, an uneven road or way; uneven ground.
Uneven (a.) Not equal; not of equal length.
Uneven (a.) Not divisible by two without a remainder; odd; -- said of numbers; as, 3, 7, and 11 are uneven numbers.
Unevitable (a.) Inevitable.
Unexact (a.) Not exact; inexact.
Unexampled (a.) Having no example or similar case; being without precedent; unprecedented; unparalleled.
Unexceptionable (a.) Not liable to any exception or objection; unobjectionable; faultless; good; excellent; as, a man of most unexceptionable character.
Unexceptive (a.) Not exceptive; not including, admitting, or being, an exception.
Unexcusable (a.) Inexcusable.
Unexhaustible (a.) Inexhaustible.
Unexpectation (n.) Absence of expectation; want of foresight.
Unexpected (a.) Not expected; coming without warning; sudden.
Unexpedient (a.) Inexpedient.
Unexpensive (a.) Inexpensive.
Unexperience (n.) Inexperience.
Unexperienced (a.) Not experienced; being without experience; inexperienced.
Unexperienced (a.) Untried; -- applied to things.
Unexperient (a.) Inexperienced.
Unexpert (a.) Not expert; inexpert.
Unexpertly (adv.) In an unexpert manner.
Unexpressible (a.) Inexpressible.
Unexpressive (a.) Not expressive; not having the power of utterance; inexpressive.
Unexpressive (a.) Incapable of being expressed; inexpressible; unutterable; ineffable.
Unextinguishable (a.) Inextinguishable.
Unextricable (a.) Not extricable; inextricable.
Unface (v. t.) To remove the face or cover from; to unmask; to expose.
Unfailable (a.) Infallible.
Unfailing (a.) Not failing; not liable to fail; inexhaustible; certain; sure.
Unfair (v. t.) To deprive of fairness or beauty.
Unfair (a.) Not fair; not honest; not impartial; disingenuous; using or involving trick or artifice; dishonest; unjust; unequal.
Unfaith (n.) Absence or want of faith; faithlessness; distrust; unbelief.
Unfaithful (a.) Not faithful; not observant of promises, vows, allegiance, or duty; violating trust or confidence; treacherous; perfidious; as, an unfaithful subject; an unfaithful agent or servant.
Unfaithful (a.) Not possessing faith; infidel.
Unfalcated (a.) Not falcated, or hooked.
Unfalcated (a.) Having no deductions; not curtailed, or shortened; undiminished.
Unfallible (a.) Infallible.
Unfasten (v. t.) To loose; to unfix; to unbind; to untie.
Unfathered (a.) Having no father; fatherless; hence, born contrary to nature.
Unfathered (a.) Having no acknowledged father; hence, illegitimate; spurious; bastard.
Unfavorable (a.) Not favorable; not propitious; adverse; contrary; discouraging.
Unfeather (v. t.) To deprive of feathers; to strip.
Unfeatured (a.) Wanting regular features; deformed.
Unfeaty (a.) Not feat; not dexterous; unskillful; clumsy.
Unfeeling (a.) Destitute of feeling; void of sensibility; insensible; insensate.
Unfeeling (a.) Without kind feelings; cruel; hard-hearted.
Unfeigned (a.) Not feigned; not counterfeit; not hypocritical; real; sincere; genuine; as, unfeigned piety; unfeigned love to man.
Unfellow (v. t.) To prevent from being a fellow or companion; to separate from one's fellows; to dissever.
Unfellowed (a.) Being without a fellow; unmatched; unmated.
Unfence (v. t.) To strip of a fence; to remove a fence from.
Unfertile (a.) Not fertile; infertile; barren.
Unfestlich (a.) Unfit for a feast; hence, jaded; worn.
Unfetter (v. t.) To loose from fetters or from restraint; to unchain; to unshackle; to liberate; as, to unfetter the mind.
Unfeudalize (v. t.) To free from feudal customs or character; to make not feudal.
Unfile (v. t.) To remove from a file or record.
Unfiled (a.) Not defiled; pure.
Unfilial (a.) Unsuitable to a son or a daughter; undutiful; not becoming a child.
Unfinished (a.) Not finished, not brought to an end; imperfect; incomplete; left in the rough; wanting the last hand or touch; as, an unfinished house; an unfinished picture; an unfinished iron casting.
Unfirm (a.) Infirm.
Unfirmness (n.) Infirmness.
Unfit (v. t.) To make unsuitable or incompetent; to deprive of the strength, skill, or proper qualities for anything; to disable; to incapacitate; to disqualify; as, sickness unfits a man for labor; sin unfits us for the society of holy beings.
Unfit (a.) Not fit; unsuitable.
Unfix (v. t.) To loosen from a fastening; to detach from anything that holds; to unsettle; as, to unfix a bayonet; to unfix the mind or affections.
Unfix (v. t.) To make fluid; to dissolve.
Unfledged (a.) Not fledged; not feathered; hence, not fully developed; immature.
Unflesh (v. t.) To deprive of flesh; to reduce a skeleton.
Unfleshly (a.) Not pertaining to the flesh; spiritual.
Unflexible (a.) Inflexible.
Unflinching (a.) Not flinching or shrinking; unyielding.
Unflower (v. t.) To strip of flowers.
Unfold (v. t.) To open the folds of; to expand; to spread out; as, to unfold a tablecloth.
Unfold (v. t.) To open, as anything covered or close; to lay open to view or contemplation; to bring out in all the details, or by successive development; to display; to disclose; to reveal; to elucidate; to explain; as, to unfold one's designs; to unfold the principles of a science.
Unfold (v. t.) To release from a fold or pen; as, to unfold sheep.
Unfold (v. i.) To open; to expand; to become disclosed or developed.
Unfolder (n.) One who, or that which, unfolds.
Unfoldment (n.) The acct of unfolding, or the state of being unfolded.
Unfool (v. t.) To restore from folly, or from being a fool.
Unforesee (v. t.) To fail to foresee.
Unforeseeable (a.) Incapable of being foreseen.
Unforeskinned (a.) Deprived of the foreskin; circumcised.
Unforgettable (a.) Not forgettable; enduring in memory.
Unform (v. t.) To decompose, or resolve into parts; to destroy the form of; to unmake.
Unformed (a.) Decomposed, or resolved into parts; having the form destroyed.
Unformed (a.) Not formed; not arranged into regular shape, order, or relations; shapeless; amorphous.
Unformed (a.) Unorganized; without definite shape or structure; as, an unformed, or unorganized, ferment.
Unfortunate (a.) Not fortunate; unsuccessful; not prosperous; unlucky; attended with misfortune; unhappy; as, an unfortunate adventure; an unfortunate man; an unfortunate commander; unfortunate business.
Unfortunate (n.) An unfortunate person.
Unfounded (a.) Not founded; not built or established.
Unfounded (a.) Having no foundation; baseless; vain; idle; as, unfounded expectations.
Unframe (v. t.) To take apart, or destroy the frame of.
Unfrangible (a.) Infrangible.
Unfrankable (a.) Not frankable; incapable of being sent free by public conveyance.
Unfraught (a.) Not fraught; not burdened.
Unfraught (a.) Removed, as a burden; unloaded.
Unfree (a.) Not free; held in bondage.
Unfreeze (v. t.) To thaw.
Unfrequency (n.) Infrequency.
Unfrequent (a.) Infrequent.
Unfrequent (v. t.) To cease to frequent.
Unfrequented (a.) Rarely visited; seldom or never resorted to by human beings; as, an unfrequented place or forest.
Unfret (v. t.) To smooth after being fretted.
Unfriend (n.) One not a friend; an enemy.
Unfriended (a.) Wanting friends; not befriended; not countenanced or supported.
Unfriendly (a.) Not friendly; not kind or benevolent; hostile; as, an unfriendly neighbor.
Unfriendly (a.) Not favorable; not adapted to promote or support any object; as, weather unfriendly to health.
Unfriendship (n.) The state or quality of being unfriendly; unfriendliness; enmity.
Unfrock (v. t.) To deprive or divest or a frock; specifically, to deprive of priestly character or privilege; as, to unfrock a priest.
Unfruitful (a.) Not producing fruit or offspring; unproductive; infertile; barren; sterile; as, an unfruitful tree or animal; unfruitful soil; an unfruitful life or effort.
Unfumed (a.) Not exposed to fumes; not fumigated.
Unfurl (v. t. & i.) To loose from a furled state; to unfold; to expand; to open or spread; as, to unfurl sails; to unfurl a flag.
Unfurnish (v. t.) To strip of furniture; to divest; to strip.
Unfusible (a.) Infusible.
Ungain (a.) Ungainly; clumsy; awkward; also, troublesome; inconvenient.
Ungainliness (n.) The state or quality of being ungainly; awkwardness.
Ungainly (a.) Not gainly; not expert or dexterous; clumsy; awkward; uncouth; as, an ungainly strut in walking.
Ungainly (a.) Unsuitable; unprofitable.
Ungainly (adv.) In an ungainly manner.
Ungear (v. t.) To strip of gear; to unharness; to throw out of gear.
Ungeld (n.) A person so far out of the protection of the law, that if he were murdered, no geld, or fine, should be paid, or composition made by him that killed him.
Ungenerous (a.) Not generous; illiberal; ignoble; unkind; dishonorable.
Ungenerously (adv.) In an ungenerous manner.
Ungenitured (a.) Destitute of genitals; impotent.
Ungentle (a.) Not gentle; lacking good breeding or delicacy; harsh.
Unget (v. t.) To cause to be unbegotten or unborn, or as if unbegotten or unborn.
Ungifted (a.) Being without gifts, especially native gifts or endowments.
Ungird (v. t.) To loose the girdle or band of; to unbind; to unload.
Ungive (v. t. & i.) To yield; to relax; to give way.
Ungka (n.) The siamang; -- called also ungka ape.
Ungka-puti (n.) The agile gibbon; -- called also ungka-pati, and ungka-etam. See Gibbon.
Unglaze (v. t.) To strip of glass; to remove the glazing, or glass, from, as a window.
Unglorify (v. t.) To deprive of glory.
Unglorious (a.) Inglorious.
Unglove (v. t.) To take off the glove or gloves of; as, to unglove the hand.
Unglue (v. t.) To separate, part, or open, as anything fastened with glue.
Ungod (v. t.) To deprive of divinity; to undeify.
Ungod (v. t.) To cause to recognize no god; to deprive of a god; to make atheistical.
Ungodly (a.) Not godly; not having regard for God; disobedient to God; wicked; impious; sinful.
Ungodly (a.) Polluted by sin or wickedness.
Ungored (a.) Not stained with gore; not bloodied.
Ungored (a.) Not gored or pierced.
Ungot (a.) Alt. of Ungotten
Ungotten (a.) Not gotten; not acquired.
Ungotten (a.) Not begotten.
Ungovernable (a.) Not governable; not capable of being governed, ruled, or restrained; licentious; wild; unbridled; as, ungovernable passions.
Ungown (v. t.) To strip of a gown; to unfrock.
Ungowned (a.) Stripped of a gown; unfrocked.
Ungowned (a.) Not having, or not wearing, a gown.
Ungraceful (a.) Not graceful; not marked with ease and dignity; deficient in beauty and elegance; inelegant; awkward; as, ungraceful manners; ungraceful speech.
Ungracious (a.) Not gracious; showing no grace or kindness; being without good will; unfeeling.
Ungracious (a.) Having no grace; graceless; wicked.
Ungracious (a.) Not well received; offensive; unpleasing; unacceptable; not favored.
Ungrate (a.) Displeasing; ungrateful; ingrate.
Ungrateful (a.) Not grateful; not thankful for favors; making no returns, or making ill return for kindness, attention, etc.; ingrateful.
Ungrateful (a.) Unpleasing; unacceptable; disagreeable; as, harsh sounds are ungrateful to the ear.
Ungrave (v. t.) To raise or remove from the grave; to disinter; to untomb; to exhume.
Ungual (a.) Of or pertaining to a nail, claw, talon, or hoof, or resembling one.
Ungual (a.) Having a nail, claw, or hoof attached; -- said of certain bones of the feet.
Unguard (v. t.) To deprive of a guard; to leave unprotected.
Ungueal (a.) Ungual.
Unguent (n.) A lubricant or salve for sores, burns, or the like; an ointment.
Unguentary (a.) Like an unguent, or partaking of its qualities.
Unguentous (a.) Unguentary.
Unguestlike (adv.) In a manner not becoming to a guest.
Unguical (a.) Ungual.
Unguicular (a.) Of or pertaining to a claw or a nail; ungual.
Unguiculata (n. pl.) An extensive division of Mammalia including those having claws or nails, as distinguished from the hoofed animals (Ungulata).
Unguiculate (n.) One of the Unguiculata.
Unguiculate (a.) Alt. of Unguiculated
Unguiculated (a.) Furnished with nails, claws, or hooks; clawed. See the Note under Nail, n., 1.
Unguiculated (n.) Furnished with a claw, or a narrow stalklike base, as the petals of a carnation.
Unguiferous (a.) Producing, having, or supporting nails or claws.
Unguiform (a.) Having the form of a claw or claws.
Unguinous (a.) Consisting of, or resembling, fat or oil; oily; unctuous; oleaginous.
Ungues (pl. ) of Unguis
Unguis (n.) The nail, claw, talon, or hoof of a finger, toe, or other appendage.
Unguis (n.) One of the terminal hooks on the foot of an insect.
Unguis (n.) The slender base of a petal in some flowers; a claw; called also ungula.
Ungulae (pl. ) of Ungula
Ungula (n.) A hoof, claw, or talon.
Ungula (n.) A section or part of a cylinder, cone, or other solid of revolution, cut off by a plane oblique to the base; -- so called from its resemblance to the hoof of a horse.
Ungula (n.) Same as Unguis, 3.
Ungular (a.) Of or pertaining to a hoof, claw, or talon; ungual.
Ungulata (n. pl.) An extensive group of mammals including all those that have hoofs. It comprises the Artiodactyla and Perissodactyla.
Ungulate (a.) Shaped like a hoof.
Ungulate (a.) Furnished with hoofs. See the Note under Nail, n., 1.
Ungulate (n.) Any hoofed quadruped; one of the Ungulata.
Unguled (a.) Hoofed, or bearing hoofs; -- used only when these are of a tincture different from the body.
Unguligrade (a.) Having, or walking on, hoofs.
Ungulous (a.) Same as Ungulate.
Unhair (v. t.) To deprive of hair, or of hairs; as, to unhair hides for leather.
Unhallow (v. t.) To profane; to desecrate.
Unhallowed (a.) Not consecrated; hence, profane; unholy; impious; wicked.
Unhand (v. t.) To loose from the hand; to let go.
Unhandsome (a.) Not handsome; not beautiful; ungraceful; not comely or pleasing; plain; homely.
Unhandsome (a.) Wanting noble or amiable qualities; dishonorable; illiberal; low; disingenuous; mean; indecorous; as, unhandsome conduct, treatment, or imputations.
Unhandsome (a.) Unhandy; clumsy; awkward; inconvenient.
Unhandy (a.) Clumsy; awkward; as, an Unhandy man.
Unhang (v. t.) To divest or strip of hangings; to remove the hangings, as a room.
Unhang (v. t.) To remove (something hanging or swinging) from that which supports it; as, to unhang a gate.
Unhap (n.) Ill luck; misfortune.
Unhappied (a.) Made unhappy.
Unhappy (a.) Not happy or fortunate; unfortunate; unlucky; as, affairs have taken an unhappy turn.
Unhappy (a.) In a degree miserable or wretched; not happy; sad; sorrowful; as, children render their parents unhappy by misconduct.
Unhappy (a.) Marked by infelicity; evil; calamitous; as, an unhappy day.
Unhappy (a.) Mischievous; wanton; wicked.
Unharbor (v. t.) To drive from harbor or shelter.
Unharbored (a.) Having no harbor or shelter; unprotected.
Unharbored (a.) Affording no harbor or shelter.
Unharmonious (a.) Inharmonious; unsymmetrical; also, unmusical; discordant.
Unharness (v. t.) To strip of harness; to loose from harness or gear; as, to unharness horses or oxen.
Unharness (v. t.) To disarm; to divest of armor.
Unhasp (v. t.) To unloose the hasp of; to unclose.
Unhat (v. t. & i.) To take off the hat of; to remove one's hat, especially as a mark of respect.
Unhead (v. t.) To take out the head of; as, to unhead a cask.
Unhead (v. t.) To decapitate; to behead.
Unheal (n.) Misfortune; calamity; sickness.
Unheal (v. t.) To uncover. See Unhele.
Unhealth (n.) Unsoundness; disease.
Unheard (a.) Not heard; not perceived by the ear; as, words unheard by those present.
Unheard (a.) Not granted an audience or a hearing; not allowed to speak; not having made a defense, or stated one's side of a question; disregarded; unheeded; as, to condem/ a man unheard.
Unheard (a.) Not known to fame; not illustrious or celebrated; obscure.
Unheard-of (a.) New; unprecedented; unparalleled.
Unheart (v. t.) To cause to lose heart; to dishearten.
Unheedy (a.) Incautious; precipitate; heedless.
Unheired (a.) Destitute of an heir.
Unhele (n.) Same as Unheal, n.
Unhele (v. t.) To uncover.
Unhelm (v. t.) To deprive of the helm or helmet.
Unhelmed (a.) Divested or deprived of the helm or helmet.
Unhelmed (a.) Not wearing a helmet; without a helmet.
Unhelmet (v. t.) To deprive of the helmet.
Unhide (v. t.) To bring out from concealment; to discover.
Unhinge (v. t.) To take from the hinges; as, to unhinge a door.
Unhinge (v. t.) To displace; to unfix by violence.
Unhinge (v. t.) To render unstable or wavering; to unsettle; as, to unhinge one's mind or opinions; to unhinge the nerves.
Unhingement (n.) The act unhinging, or the state of being unhinged.
Unhitch (v. t.) To free from being hitched, or as if from being hitched; to unfasten; to loose; as, to unhitch a horse, or a trace.
Unhive (v. t. v. t.) To drive or remove from a hive.
Unhive (v. t. v. t.) To deprive of habitation or shelter, as a crowd.
Unhoard (v. t.) To take or steal from a hoard; to pilfer.
Unhold (v. t.) To cease to hold; to unhand; to release.
Unholy (a.) Not holy; unhallowed; not consecrated; hence, profane; wicked; impious.
Unhonest (a.) Dishonest; dishonorable.
Unhood (v. t.) To remove a hood or disguise from.
Unhook (v. t.) To loose from a hook; to undo or open by loosening or unfastening the hooks of; as, to unhook a fish; to unhook a dress.
Unhoop (v. t.) To strip or deprive of hoops; to take away the hoops of.
Unhoped (a.) Not hoped or expected.
Unhoped-for (a.) Unhoped; unexpected.
Unhorse (v. t.) To throw from a horse; to cause to dismount; also, to take a horse or horses from; as, to unhorse a rider; to unhorse a carriage.
Unhosed (a.) Without hose.
Unhospitable (a.) Inhospitable.
Unhouse (v. t.) To drive from a house or habitation; to dislodge; hence, to deprive of shelter.
Unhoused (a.) Driven from a house; deprived of shelter.
Unhoused (a.) Not provided with a house or shelter; houseless; homeless.
Unhouseled (a.) Not having received the sacrament.
Unhuman (a.) Not human; inhuman.
Unhumanize (v. t.) To render inhuman or barbarous.
Unhusked (a.) Not husked; having the husk on.
Unhusked (a.) Having the husk removed; without husk.
Uni- () A prefix signifying one, once; as in uniaxial, unicellular.
Uniat (n.) Alt. of Uniate
Uniate (n.) A member of the Greek Church, who nevertheless acknowledges the supremacy of the Pope of Rome; one of the United Greeks. Also used adjectively.
Uniaxal (a.) Uniaxial.
Uniaxial (a.) Having but one optic axis, or line of no double refraction.
Uniaxial (a.) Having only one axis; developing along a single line or plane; -- opposed to multiaxial.
Uniaxially (adv.) In a uniaxial manner.
Unibranchiate (a.) Having but one gill, as certain molluscs.
Unicameral (a.) Having, or consisting of, a single chamber; -- said of a legislative assembly.
Unicapsular () Having but one capsule to each flower.
Unicarinated (a.) Having one ridge or keel.
Unicelled (a.) Unicellular.
Unicellular (a.) Having, or consisting of, but a single cell; as, a unicellular organism.
Unicentral (a.) Having a single center of growth.
Unicity (n.) The condition of being united; quality of the unique; unification.
Uniclinal (a.) See Nonoclinal.
Unicolorous (a.) Having the surface of a uniform color.
Unicorn (n.) A fabulous animal with one horn; the monoceros; -- often represented in heraldry as a supporter.
Unicorn (n.) A two-horned animal of some unknown kind, so called in the Authorized Version of the Scriptures.
Unicorn (n.) Any large beetle having a hornlike prominence on the head or prothorax.
Unicorn (n.) The larva of a unicorn moth.
Unicorn (n.) The kamichi; -- called also unicorn bird.
Unicorn (n.) A howitzer.
Unicornous (a.) Having but a single horn; -- said of certain insects.
Unicostate (a.) Having a single rib or strong nerve running upward from the base; -- said of a leaf.
Unicursal (a.) That can be passed over in a single course; -- said of a curve when the coordinates of the point on the curve can be expressed as rational algebraic functions of a single parameter /.
Unideaed (a.) Having no ideas; senseless; frivolous.
Unideal (a.) Not ideal; real; unimaginative.
Unideal (a.) Unideaed.
Unidimensional (a.) Having but one dimension. See Dimension.
Unifacial (a.) Having but one front surface; as, some foliaceous corals are unifacial, the polyp mouths being confined to one surface.
Unific (a.) Making one or unity; unifying.
Unification (n.) The act of unifying, or the state of being unified.
Unifier (n.) One who, or that which, unifies; as, a natural law is a unifier of phenomena.
Unifilar (a.) Having only one thread; involving the use of only one thread, wire, fiber, or the like; as, unifilar suspension.
Uniflagellate (a.) Having but one flagellum; as, uniflagellate organisms.
Uniflorous (a.) Bearing one flower only; as, a uniflorous peduncle.
Unifolliate (a.) Having only one leaf.
Unifollilate (a.) Having only one leaflet, as the leaves of the orange tree.
Uniform (a.) Having always the same form, manner, or degree; not varying or variable; unchanging; consistent; equable; homogenous; as, the dress of the Asiatics has been uniform from early ages; the temperature is uniform; a stratum of uniform clay.
Uniform (a.) Of the same form with others; agreeing with each other; conforming to one rule or mode; consonant.
Uniform (a.) A dress of a particular style or fashion worn by persons in the same service or order by means of which they have a distinctive appearance; as, the uniform of the artillery, of the police, of the Freemasons, etc.
Uniform (v. t.) To clothe with a uniform; as, to uniform a company of soldiers.
Uniform (v. t.) To make conformable.
Uniformal (a.) Uniform.
Uniformism (n.) The doctrine of uniformity in the geological history of the earth; -- in part equivalent to uniformitarianism, but also used, more broadly, as opposed to catastrophism.
Uniformitarian (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, the view or doctrine that existing causes, acting in the same manner and with essentially the same intensity as at the present time, are sufficient to account for all geological changes.
Uniformitarian (n.) One who accepts uniformitarianism, or the uniformitarian doctrine.
Uniformitarianism (n.) The uniformitarian doctrine.
Uniformity (n.) The quality or state of being uniform; freedom from variation or difference; resemblance to itself at all times; sameness of action, effect, etc., under like conditions; even tenor; as, the uniformity of design in a poem; the uniformity of nature.
Uniformity (n.) Consistency; sameness; as, the uniformity of a man's opinions.
Uniformity (n.) Similitude between the parts of a whole; as, the uniformity of sides in a regular figure; beauty is said to consist in uniformity with variety.
Uniformity (n.) Continued or unvaried sameness or likeness.
Uniformity (n.) Conformity to a pattern or rule; resemblance, consonance, or agreement; as, the uniformity of different churches in ceremonies or rites.
Uniformly (adv.) In a uniform manner; without variation or diversity; by a regular, constant, or common ratio of change; with even tenor; as, a temper uniformly mild.
Unifromness (n.) The quality or state of being uniform; uniformity.
Unified (imp. & p. p.) of Unify
Unifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Unify
Unify (v. t.) To cause to be one; to make into a unit; to unite; to view as one.
Unigeniture (n.) The state of being the only begotten.
Unigenous (a.) Being of one kind; being of the same genus.
Unijugate (a.) Having but one pair of leaflets; -- said of a pinnate leaf.
Unilabiate (a.) Having one lip only; as, a unilabiate corolla.
Unilateral (a.) Being on one side only; affecting but one side; one-sided.
Unilateral (a.) Pertaining to one side; one-sided; as, a unilateral raceme, in which the flowers grow only on one side of a common axis, or are all turned to one side.
Uniliteral (a.) Consisting of one letter only; as, a uniliteral word or sign.
Unilobar (a.) Consisting of a single lobe.
Unilocular (a.) Having one cell or cavity only; as, a unilocular capsule or shell.
Unimitable (a.) Inimitable.
Unimpairable (a.) That can not be impaired.
Unimpeachable (a.) Not impeachable; not to be called in question; exempt from liability to accusation; free from stain, guilt, or fault; irreproachable; blameless; as, an unimpeachable reputation; unimpeachable testimony.
Unimplicate (a.) Not implicated.
Unimportance (n.) Want of importance; triviality.
Unimproved (a.) Not improved; not made better or wiser; not advanced in knowledge, manners, or excellence.
Unimproved (a.) Not used; not employed; especially, not used or employed for a valuable purpose; as, unimproved opportunities; unimproved blessings.
Unimproved (a.) Not tilled, cultivated, or built upon; yielding no revenue; as, unimproved land or soil.
Unimuscular (a.) Having only one adductor muscle, and one muscular impression on each valve, as the oyster; monomyarian.
Unincumbered (a.) Not incumbered; not burdened.
Unincumbered (a.) Free from any temporary estate or interest, or from mortgage, or other charge or debt; as, an estate unincumbered with dower.
Uninfringible (a.) That may not be infringed; as, an uninfringible monopoly.
Unintelligence (n.) Absence or lack of intelligence; unwisdom; ignorance.
Uninteressed (a.) Uninterested; unaffected.
Uninterested (a.) Not interested; not having any interest or property in; having nothing at stake; as, to be uninterested in any business.
Uninterested (a.) Not having the mind or the passions engaged; as, uninterested in a discourse or narration.
Unintermission (n.) Want or failure of intermission.
Uninucleated (a.) Possessed of but a single nucleus; as, a uninucleated cell.
Unio (n.) Any one of numerous species of fresh-water mussels belonging to Unio and many allied genera.
Uniocular (a.) Of, pertaining to, or seated in, one eye; monocular.
Union (n.) The act of uniting or joining two or more things into one, or the state of being united or joined; junction; coalition; combination.
Union (n.) Agreement and conjunction of mind, spirit, will, affections, or the like; harmony; concord.
Union (n.) That which is united, or made one; something formed by a combination or coalition of parts or members; a confederation; a consolidated body; a league; as, the weavers have formed a union; trades unions have become very numerous; the United States of America are often called the Union.
Union (n.) A textile fabric composed of two or more materials, as cotton, silk, wool, etc., woven together.
Union (n.) A large, fine pearl.
Union (n.) A device emblematic of union, used on a national flag or ensign, sometimes, as in the military standard of Great Britain, covering the whole field; sometimes, as in the flag of the United States, and the English naval and marine flag, occupying the upper inner corner, the rest of the flag being called the fly. Also, a flag having such a device; especially, the flag of Great Britain.
Union (n.) A joint or other connection uniting parts of machinery, or the like, as the elastic pipe of a tender connecting it with the feed pipe of a locomotive engine; especially, a pipe fitting for connecting pipes, or pipes and fittings, in such a way as to facilitate disconnection.
Union (n.) A cask suspended on trunnions, in which fermentation is carried on.
Unionism (n.) The sentiment of attachment to a federal union, especially to the federal union of the United States.
Unionism (n.) The principles, or the system, of combination among workmen engaged in the same occupation or trade.
Unionist (n.) One who advocates or promotes union; especially a loyal supporter of a federal union, as that of the United States.
Unionist (n.) A member or supporter of a trades union.
Unionistic (a.) Of or pertaining to union or unionists; tending to promote or preserve union.
Uniovulate (a.) Containing but one ovule.
Unipara (n.) A woman who has borne one child.
Uniparous (a.) Producing but one egg or young at a time.
Uniparous (a.) Producing but one axis of inflorescence; -- said of the scorpioid cyme.
Uniped (a.) Having only one foot.
Unipersonal (a.) Existing as one, and only one, person; as, a unipersonal God.
Unipersonal (a.) Used in only one person, especially only in the third person, as some verbs; impersonal.
Unipersonalist (n.) One who believes that the Deity is unipersonal.
Uniphonous (a.) Having but one sound, as the drum.
Uniplicate (a.) Having, or consisting of, but one fold.
Unipolar (a.) Having, or acting by means of, one pole only.
Unipolar (a.) Having but one pole or process; -- applied to those ganglionic nerve cells which have but one radiating process; -- opposed to multipolar.
Unique (a.) Being without a like or equal; unmatched; unequaled; unparalleled; single in kind or excellence; sole.
Unique (n.) A thing without a like; something unequaled or unparalleled.
Uniquity (n.) The quality or state of being unique; uniqueness.
Uniradiated (a.) Having but one ray.
Uniramous (a.) Having but one branch.
Uniseptate (a.) Having but one septum, or partition; -- said of two-celled fruits, such as the silicles of cruciferous plants.
Uniserial (a.) Having only one row or series.
Uniseriate (a.) Having one line or series; uniserial.
Unisexual (a.) Having one sex only, as plants which have the male and female flowers on separate individuals, or animals in which the sexes are in separate individuals; di/cious; -- distinguished from bisexual, or hermaphrodite. See Di/cious.
Unisilicate (n.) A salt of orthosilicic acid, H4SiO4; -- so called because the ratio of the oxygen atoms united to the basic metals and silicon respectively is 1:1; for example, Mg2SiO4 or 2MgO.SiO2.
Unison (n.) Harmony; agreement; concord; union.
Unison (n.) Identity in pitch; coincidence of sounds proceeding from an equality in the number of vibrations made in a given time by two or more sonorous bodies. Parts played or sung in octaves are also said to be in unison, or in octaves.
Unison (n.) A single, unvaried.
Unison (n.) Sounding alone.
Unison (n.) Sounded alike in pitch; unisonant; unisonous; as, unison passages, in which two or more parts unite in coincident sound.
Unisonal (a.) Being in unison; unisonant.
Unisonance (n.) Accordance of sounds; unison.
Unisonant (a.) Being in unison; having the same degree of gravity or acuteness; sounded alike in pitch.
Unisonous (a.) Being in unison; unisonant.
Unit (n.) A single thing or person.
Unit (n.) The least whole number; one.
Unit (n.) A gold coin of the reign of James I., of the value of twenty shillings.
Unit (n.) Any determinate amount or quantity (as of length, time, heat, value) adopted as a standard of measurement for other amounts or quantities of the same kind.
Unit (n.) A single thing, as a magnitude or number, regarded as an undivided whole.
Unitable (a.) Capable of union by growth or otherwise.
Unitarian (n.) One who denies the doctrine of the Trinity, believing that God exists only in one person; a unipersonalist; also, one of a denomination of Christians holding this belief.
Unitarian (n.) One who rejects the principle of dualism.
Unitarian (n.) A monotheist.
Unitarian (a.) Of or pertaining to Unitarians, or their doctrines.
Unitarianism (n.) The doctrines of Unitarians.
Unitarianized (imp. & p. p.) of Unitarianize
Unitarianizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Unitarianize
Unitarianize (v. t. & i.) To change or turn to Unitarian views.
Unitary (a.) Of or pertaining to a unit or units; relating to unity; as, the unitary method in arithmetic.
Unitary (a.) Of the nature of a unit; not divided; united.
United (imp. & p. p.) of Unite
Uniting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Unite
Unite (v. t.) To put together so as to make one; to join, as two or more constituents, to form a whole; to combine; to connect; to join; to cause to adhere; as, to unite bricks by mortar; to unite iron bars by welding; to unite two armies.
Unite (v. t.) Hence, to join by a legal or moral bond, as families by marriage, nations by treaty, men by opinions; to join in interest, affection, fellowship, or the like; to cause to agree; to harmonize; to associate; to attach.
Unite (v. i.) To become one; to be cemented or consolidated; to combine, as by adhesion or mixture; to coalesce; to grow together.
Unite (v. i.) To join in an act; to concur; to act in concert; as, all parties united in signing the petition.
Unite (v. t.) United; joint; as, unite consent.
United (a.) Combined; joined; made one.
Unitedly (adv.) In an united manner.
Uniter (n.) One who, or that which, unites.
Uniterable (a.) Not iterable; incapable of being repeated.
Unition (v. t.) The act of uniting, or the state of being united; junction.
Unitive (a.) Having the power of uniting; causing, or tending to produce, union.
Unitively (adv.) In a unitive manner.
Unitized (imp. & p. p.) of Unitize
Unitizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Unitize
Unitize (v. t.) To reduce to a unit, or one whole; to form into a unit; to unify.
Unitude (n.) Unity.
Unities (pl. ) of Unity
Unity (n.) The state of being one; oneness.
Unity (n.) Concord; harmony; conjunction; agreement; uniformity; as, a unity of proofs; unity of doctrine.
Unity (n.) Any definite quantity, or aggregate of quantities or magnitudes taken as one, or for which 1 is made to stand in calculation; thus, in a table of natural sines, the radius of the circle is regarded as unity.
Unity (n.) In dramatic composition, one of the principles by which a uniform tenor of story and propriety of representation are preserved; conformity in a composition to these; in oratory, discourse, etc., the due subordination and reference of every part to the development of the leading idea or the eastablishment of the main proposition.
Unity (n.) Such a combination of parts as to constitute a whole, or a kind of symmetry of style and character.
Unity (n.) The peculiar characteristics of an estate held by several in joint tenancy.
Univalence (n.) The quality or state of being univalent.
Univalent (a.) Having a valence of one; capable of combining with, or of being substituted for, one atom of hydrogen; monovalent; -- said of certain atoms and radicals.
Univalve (n.) A shell consisting of one valve only; a mollusk whose shell is composed of a single piece, as the snails and conchs.
Univalve (a.) Alt. of Univalved
Univalved (a.) Having one valve; as, a univalve shell or pericarp.
Univalvia (n. pl.) Same as Gastropoda.
Univalvular (a.) Same as Univalve, a.
Universal (a.) Of or pertaining to the universe; extending to, including, or affecting, the whole number, quantity, or space; unlimited; general; all-reaching; all-pervading; as, universal ruin; universal good; universal benevolence or benefice.
Universal (a.) Constituting or considered as a whole; total; entire; whole; as, the universal world.
Universal (a.) Adapted or adaptable to all or to various uses, shapes, sizes, etc.; as, a universal milling machine.
Universal (a.) Forming the whole of a genus; relatively unlimited in extension; affirmed or denied of the whole of a subject; as, a universal proposition; -- opposed to particular; e. g. (universal affirmative) All men are animals; (universal negative) No men are omniscient.
Universal (n.) The whole; the general system of the universe; the universe.
Universal (n.) A general abstract conception, so called from being universally applicable to, or predicable of, each individual or species contained under it.
Universal (n.) A universal proposition. See Universal, a., 4.
Universalian (a.) Of or pertaining to Universalism; Universalist.
Universalism (n.) The doctrine or belief that all men will be saved, or made happy, in the future state.
Universalist (n.) One who believes in Universalism; one of a denomination of Christians holding this faith.
Universalist (n.) One who affects to understand all the particulars in statements or propositions.
Universalist (a.) Of or pertaining to Unversalists of their doctrines.
Universalistic (a.) Of or pertaining to the whole; universal.
Universalties (pl. ) of Universality
Universality (n.) The quality or state of being universal; unlimited extension or application; generality; -- distinguished from particularity; as, the unversality of a proposition; the unversality of sin; the unversality of the Deluge.
Universalized (imp. & p. p.) of Universalize
Universalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Universalize
Universalize (v. t.) To make universal; to generalize.
Universally (adv.) In a universal manner; without exception; as, God's laws are universally binding on his creatures.
Universalness (n.) The quality or state of being universal; universality.
Universe (n.) All created things viewed as constituting one system or whole; the whole body of things, or of phenomena; the / / of the Greeks, the mundus of the Latins; the world; creation.
Universities (pl. ) of University
University (n.) The universe; the whole.
University (n.) An association, society, guild, or corporation, esp. one capable of having and acquiring property.
University (n.) An institution organized and incorporated for the purpose of imparting instruction, examining students, and otherwise promoting education in the higher branches of literature, science, art, etc., empowered to confer degrees in the several arts and faculties, as in theology, law, medicine, music, etc. A university may exist without having any college connected with it, or it may consist of but one college, or it may comprise an assemblage of colleges established in any place, with professors for instructing students in the sciences and other branches of learning.
Universological (a.) Of or pertaining to universology.
Universologist (n.) One who is versed in universology.
Universology (n.) The science of the universe, and the relations which it involves.
Univocacy (n.) The quality or state of being univocal.
Univocal (a.) Having one meaning only; -- contrasted with equivocal.
Univocal (a.) Having unison of sound, as the octave in music. See Unison, n., 2.
Univocal (n.) Having always the same drift or tenor; uniform; certain; regular.
Univocal (n.) Unequivocal; indubitable.
Univocal (n.) A generic term, or a term applicable in the same sense to all the species it embraces.
Univocal (n.) A word having but one meaning.
Univocally (adv.) In a univocal manner; in one term; in one sense; not equivocally.
Univocation (n.) Agreement of name and meaning.
Unjoin (v. t.) To disjoin.
Unjoint (v. t.) To disjoint.
Unjointed (a.) Disjointed; unconnected; hence, incoherent.
Unjointed (a.) Having no joint or articulation; as, an unjointed stem.
Unjust (a.) Acting contrary to the standard of right; not animated or controlled by justice; false; dishonest; as, an unjust man or judge.
Unjust (a.) Contrary to justice and right; prompted by a spirit of injustice; wrongful; as, an unjust sentence; an unjust demand; an unjust accusation.
Unjustice (n.) Want of justice; injustice.
Unkard (a.) See Unked.
Unke (n.) A European aquatic toad (Bombinator igneus). Its back is dark; its belly is marked with crimson. Called also feuerkrote.
Unked (a.) Odd; strange; ugly; old; uncouth.
Unked (a.) Lonely; dreary; unkard.
Unkemmed (a.) Unkempt.
Unkempt (a.) Not combed; disheveled; as, an urchin with unkempt hair.
Unkempt (a.) Fig.; Not smoothed; unpolished; rough.
Unkennel (v. t.) To drive from a kennel or hole; as, to unkennel a fox.
Unkennel (v. t.) Fig.: To discover; to disclose.
Unkent (a.) Unknown; strange.
Unketh (a.) Uncouth.
Unkind (a.) Having no race or kindred; childless.
Unkind (a.) Not kind; contrary to nature, or the law of kind or kindred; unnatural.
Unkind (a.) Wanting in kindness, sympathy, benevolence, gratitude, or the like; cruel; harsh; unjust; ungrateful.
Unkindliness (n.) Unkindness.
Unkindly (a.) Not kindly; unkind; ungracious.
Unkindly (a.) Unnatural; contrary to nature.
Unkindly (a.) Unfavorable; annoying; malignant.
Unkindred (a.) Not kindred; not of the same kin.
Unking (v. t.) To cause to cease to be a king.
Unkingship (n.) The quality or condition of being unkinged; abolition of monarchy.
Unkiss (v. t.) To cancel or annul what was done or sealed by a kiss; to cancel by a kiss.
Unkle (n.) See Uncle.
Unknight (v. t.) To deprive of knighthood.
Unknit (v. t.) To undo or unravel what is knitted together.
Unknot (v. t.) To free from knots; to untie.
Unknow (v. t.) To cease to know; to lose the knowledge of.
Unknow (v. t.) To fail of knowing; to be ignorant of.
Unknow (a.) Unknown.
Unknowledged (a.) Not acknowledged or recognized.
Unknown (a.) Not known; not apprehended.
Unlabored (a.) Not produced by labor or toil.
Unlabored (a.) Not cultivated; untitled; as, an unlabored field.
Unlabored (a.) Not laboriously produced, or not evincing labor; as, an unlabored style or work.
Unlace (v. t.) To loose by undoing a lacing; as, to unlace a shoe.
Unlace (v. t.) To loose the dress of; to undress; hence, to expose; to disgrace.
Unlace (v. t.) To loose, and take off, as a bonnet from a sail, or to cast off, as any lacing in any part of the rigging of a vessel.
Unlade (v. t.) To take the load from; to take out the cargo of; as, to unlade a ship or a wagon.
Unlade (v. t.) To unload; to remove, or to have removed, as a load or a burden; to discharge.
Unlaid (a.) Not laid or placed; not fixed.
Unlaid (a.) Not allayed; not pacified; not laid finally to rest.
Unlaid (a.) Not laid out, as a corpse.
Unland (v. t.) To deprive of lands.
Unlap (v. t.) To unfold.
Unlash (v. t.) To loose, as that which is lashed or tied down.
Unlatched (imp. & p. p.) of Unlatch
Unlatching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Unlatch
Unlatch (v. i.) To open or loose by lifting the latch; as, to unlatch a door.
Unlaugh (v. t.) To recall, as former laughter.
Unlaw (v. t.) To deprive of the authority or character of law.
Unlaw (v. t.) To put beyond protection of law; to outlaw.
Unlaw (v. t.) To impose a fine upon; to fine.
Unlaw (n.) Any transgression or offense against the law.
Unlaw (n.) A fine imposed as a penalty for violation of the law.
Unlawed (a.) Not having the claws and balls of the forefeet cut off; -- said of dogs.
Unlawful (a.) Not lawful; contrary to law.
Unlawlike (a.) Not according to law; being or done in violation of law; unlawful.
Unlay (v. t.) To untwist; as, to unlay a rope.
Unlearn (v. t.) To forget, as what has been learned; to lose from memory; also, to learn the contrary of.
Unlearn (v. t.) To fail to learn.
Unlearned (a.) Not learned; untaught; uneducated; ignorant; illiterate.
Unlearned (a.) Not gained by study; not known.
Unlearned (a.) Not exhibiting learning; as, unlearned verses.
Unleash (v. t.) To free from a leash, or as from a leash; to let go; to release; as, to unleash dogs.
Unleavened (a.) Not leavened; containing no leaven; as, unleavened bread.
Unless (conj.) Upon any less condition than (the fact or thing stated in the sentence or clause which follows); if not; supposing that not; if it be not; were it not that; except; as, we shall fail unless we are industrious.
Unlicked (a.) Not licked; hence, not properly formed; ungainly. Cf. To lick into shape, under Lick, v.
Unlike (a.) Not like; dissimilar; diverse; having no resemblance; as, the cases are unlike.
Unlike (a.) Not likely; improbable; unlikely.
Unlikelihood (n.) Absence of likelihood.
Unlikeliness (n.) The quality or state of being unlikely.
Unlikely (a.) Not likely; improbable; not to be reasonably expected; as, an unlikely event; the thing you mention is very unlikely.
Unlikely (a.) Not holding out a prospect of success; likely to fail; unpromising; as, unlikely means.
Unlikely (a.) Not such as to inspire liking; unattractive; disagreeable.
Unlikely (adv.) In an unlikely manner.
Unliken (v. t.) To make unlike; to dissimilate.
Unlikeness (n.) The quality or state of being unlike; want of resemblance; dissimilarity.
Unlimber (v. t.) To detach the limber from; as, to unlimber a gun.
Unlimitable (a.) Illimitable.
Unlimited (a.) Not limited; having no bounds; boundless; as, an unlimited expanse of ocean.
Unlimited (a.) Undefined; indefinite; not bounded by proper exceptions; as, unlimited terms.
Unlimited (a.) Unconfined; not restrained; unrestricted.
Unline (v. t.) To take the lining out of; hence, to empty; as, to unline one's purse.
Unlink (v. t.) To separate or undo, as links; to uncoil; to unfasten.
Unliquidated (a.) Not liquidated; not exactly ascertained; not adjusted or settled.
Unliquored (a.) Not moistened or wet with liquor; dry.
Unliquored (a.) Not in liquor; not intoxicated; sober.
Unlive (v. t.) To //ve in a contrary manner, as a life; to live in a manner contrary to.
Unlived (a.) Bereft or deprived of life.
Unload (v. t.) To take the load from; to discharge of a load or cargo; to disburden; as, to unload a ship; to unload a beast.
Unload (v. t.) Hence, to relieve from anything onerous.
Unload (v. t.) To discharge or remove, as a load or a burden; as, to unload the cargo of a vessel.
Unload (v. t.) To draw the charge from; as, to unload a gun.
Unload (v. t.) To sell in large quantities, as stock; to get rid of.
Unload (v. i.) To perform the act of unloading anything; as, let unload now.
Unloader (n.) One who, or that which, unloads; a device for unloading, as hay from a wagon.
Unlocated (a.) Not located or placed; not fixed in a place.
Unlocated (a.) Not surveyed, or designated by marks, limits, or boundaries, as appropriated to some individual, company, or corporation; as, unlocated lands.
Unlock (v. t.) To unfasten, as what is locked; as, to unlock a door or a chest.
Unlock (v. t.) To open, in general; to lay open; to undo.
Unlodge (v. t.) To dislodge; to deprive of lodgment.
Unlook (v. t.) To recall or retract, as a look.
Unlooked (a.) Not observed or foreseen; unexpected; -- generally with for.
Unlooked-for (a.) Not looked for; unexpected; as, an unlooked-for event.
Unloose (v. t.) To make loose; to loosen; to set free.
Unloose (v. i.) To become unfastened; to lose all connection or union.
Unloosen (v. t.) To loosen; to unloose.
Unlord (v. t.) To deprive of the rank or position of a lord.
Unlorded (a.) Deprived of the rank of a lord.
Unlorded (a.) Not raised to the rank of a lord.
Unlove (v. t.) To cease to love; to hate.
Unlovely (a.) Not lovely; not amiable; possessing qualities that excite dislike; disagreeable; displeasing; unpleasant.
Unluckily (adv.) In an unlucky manner.
Unluckiness (n.) Quality or state of being unlucky.
Unlucky (a.) Not lucky; not successful; unfortunate; ill-fated; unhappy; as, an unlucky man; an unlucky adventure; an unlucky throw of dice; an unlucky game.
Unlucky (a.) Bringing bad luck; ill-omened; inauspicious.
Unlucky (a.) Mischievous; as, an unlucky wag.
Unlust (n.) Listlessness; disinclination.
Unlute (v. t.) To separate, as things cemented or luted; to take the lute or the clay from.
Unmade (a.) Not yet made or formed; as, an unmade grave.
Unmade (a.) Deprived of form, character, etc.; disunited.
Unmagistrate (v. t.) To divest of the office or authority of a magistrate.
Unmaiden (v. t.) To ravish; to deflower.
Unmake (v. t.) To destroy the form and qualities of; to deprive of being; to uncreate.
Unman (v. t.) To deprive of the distinctive qualities of a human being, as reason, or the like.
Unman (v. t.) To emasculate; to deprive of virility.
Unman (v. t.) To deprive of the courage and fortitude of a man; to break or subdue the manly spirit in; to cause to despond; to dishearten; to make womanish.
Unman (v. t.) To deprive of men; as, to unman a ship.
Unmanacle (v. t.) To free from manacles.
Unmanhood (n.) Absence or lack of manhood.
Unmanned (a.) Deprived of manly qualities; deficient in vigor, strength, courage, etc.; weak; effeminate.
Unmanned (a.) Not tamed; not made familiar with, or subject to, man; -- also used figuratively.
Unmanned (a.) Not furnished with men; as, an unmanned ship.
Unmannerly (a.) Not mannerly; ill-bred; rude.
Unmannerly (adv.) Uncivilly; rudely.
Unmantle (v. t.) To divest of a mantle; to uncover.
Unmarry (v. t.) To annul the marriage of; to divorce.
Unmartyr (v. t.) To degrade from the rank of a martyr.
Unmasculate (v. t.) To emasculate.
Unmask (v. t.) To strip of a mask or disguise; to lay open; to expose.
Unmask (v. i.) To put off a mask.
Unmasterable (a.) Incapable of being mastered or subdued.
Unmaterial (a.) Not material; immaterial.
Unmeaning (a.) Having no meaning or signification; as, unmeaning words.
Unmeaning (a.) Not indicating intelligence or sense; senseless; expressionless; as, an unmeaning face.
Unmeant (a.) Not meant or intended; unintentional.
Unmeasurable (a.) Immeasurable.
Unmechanize (v. t.) To undo the mechanism of; to unmake; as, to unmechanize a structure.
Unmechanized (a.) Not mechanized.
Unmeet (a.) Not meet or fit; not proper; unbecoming; unsuitable; -- usually followed by for.
Unmember (v. t.) To deprive of membership, as in a church.
Unmentionables (n. pl.) The breeches; trousers.
Unmerchantable (a.) Not merchantable; not fit for market; being of a kind, quality, or quantity that is unsalable.
Unmercied (a.) Unmerciful; merciless.
Unmerciful (a.) Not merciful; indisposed to mercy or grace; cruel; inhuman; merciless; unkind.
Unmerciless (a.) Utterly merciless.
Unmew (v. t.) To release from confinement or restraint.
Unmingle (v. t.) To separate, as things mixed.
Unmistakable (a.) Incapable of being mistaken or misunderstood; clear; plain; obvious; evident.
Unmiter (v. t.) Alt. of Unmitre
Unmitre (v. t.) To deprive of a miter; to depose or degrade from the rank of a bishop.
Unmold (v. t.) Alt. of Unmould
Unmould (v. t.) To change the form of; to reduce from any form.
Unmoneyed (a.) Destitute of money; not rich.
Unmonopolize (v. t.) To recover or release from the state of being monopolized.
Unmoor (v. t.) To cause to ride with one anchor less than before, after having been moored by two or more anchors.
Unmoor (v. t.) To loose from anchorage. See Moor, v. t.
Unmoor (v. i.) To weigh anchor.
Unmoral (a.) Having no moral perception, quality, or relation; involving no idea of morality; -- distinguished from both moral and immoral.
Unmoralized (a.) Not restrained or tutored by morality.
Unmorrised (a.) Not arrayed in the dress of a morris dancer.
Unmortise (v. t.) To loosen, unfix, or separate, as things mortised together.
Un-Mosaic (a.) Not according to Moses; unlike Moses or his works.
Unmothered () Deprived of a mother; motherless.
Unmovable (a.) Immovable.
Unmovably (adv.) Immovably.
Unmoved (a.) Not moved; fixed; firm; unshaken; calm; apathetic.
Unmuffle (v. t.) To take a covering from, as the face; to uncover.
Unmuffle (v. t.) To remove the muffling of, as a drum.
Unmutable (a.) Immutable.
Unmuzzle (v. t.) To loose from a muzzle; to remove a muzzle from.
Unnail (v. t.) To remove the nails from; to unfasten by removing nails.
Unnapped (a.) Finished without a nap.
Unnatural (a.) Not natural; contrary, or not conforming, to the order of nature; being without natural traits; as, unnatural crimes.
Unnaturalize (v. t.) To make unnatural.
Unnature (v. t.) To change the nature of; to invest with a different or contrary nature.
Unnature (n.) The contrary of nature; that which is unnatural.
Unnear (prep.) Not near; not close to; at a distance from.
Unnesessary (a.) Not necessary; not required under the circumstances; unless; needless; as, unnecessary labor, care, or rigor.
Unnecessity (n.) The state of being unnecessary; something unnecessary.
Unneighbored (a.) Being without neigbors.
Unneighborly (a.) Not neighborly; distant; reserved; solitary; exclusive.
Unneighborly (adv.) Not in a neighborly manner.
Unnervate (a.) Enervate.
Unnerve (v. t.) To deprive of nerve, force, or strength; to weaken; to enfeeble; as, to unnerve the arm.
Unnest (v. t.) To eject from a nest; to unnestle.
Unnestle (v. t.) Same as Unnest.
Unnethe (adv.) Alt. of Unnethes
Unnethes (adv.) With difficulty. See Uneath.
Unnoble (a.) Ignoble.
Unnobly (adv.) Ignobly.
Unhooked (a.) Without nooks and corners; guileless.
Unnotify (v. t.) To retract or withdraw a notice of.
Unnumbered (a.) Not numbered; not counted or estimated; innumerable.
Unnumerable (a.) Innumerable.
Unnun (v. t.) To remove from condition of being a nun.
Unobedience (n.) Disobedience.
Unobedient (a.) Disobedient.
Unobservance (n.) Want or neglect of observance; inobservance.
Unobtrusive (a.) Not obtrusive; not presuming; modest.
Unoffensive (a.) Inoffensive.
Unoften (adv.) Not often.
Unoil (v. t.) To remove the oil from.
Unoperative (a.) Producing no effect; inoperative.
Unoperculated (a.) Destitute of an operculum, or cover.
Unorder (v. t.) To countermand an order for.
Unorderly (a.) Disorderly.
Unordinate (a.) Disorderly; irregular; inordinate.
Unorganized (a.) Not organized; being without organic structure; specifically (Biol.), not having the different tissues and organs characteristic of living organisms, nor the power of growth and development; as, the unorganized ferments. See the Note under Ferment, n., 1.
Unoriginated (a.) Not originated; existing from all eternity.
Unoriginated (a.) Not yet caused to be, or to be made; as, possible inventions still unoriginated.
Unoriginately (adv.) Without origin.
Unossified (a.) Destitute of a bony structure.
Unowed (a.) Ownerless.
Unowed (a.) Not owed; as, to pay money unowed.
Unowned (a.) Not owned; having no owner.
Unowned (a.) Not acknowledged; not avowed.
Unpack (v. t.) To separate and remove, as things packed; to open and remove the contents of; as, to unpack a trunk.
Unpack (v. t.) To relieve of a pack or burden.
Unpacker (n.) One who unpacks.
Unpaganize (v. t.) To cause to cease to be pagan; to divest of pagan character.
Unpaint (v. t.) To remove the paint from; to efface, as a painting.
Unpaired (a.) Not paired; not suited or matched.
Unpalped (a.) Destitute of a palp.
Unpannel (v. t.) To take the saddle off; to unsaddle.
Unparadise (v. t.) To deprive of happiness like that of paradise; to render unhappy.
Unparagoned (a.) Having no paragon or equal; matchless; peerless.
Unparalleled (a.) Having no parallel, or equal; unequaled; unmatched.
Unparched (a.) Dried up; withered by heat.
Unparented (a.) Having no parent, or no acknowledged parent.
Unparliamentary (a.) Not parliamentary; contrary to the practice of parliamentary bodies.
Unpartial (a.) Impartial.
Unpassable (a.) Impassable.
Unpassionate (a.) Not passionate; dispassionate.
Unpastor (v. t.) To cause to be no longer pastor; to deprive of pastorship.
Unpathed (a.) Not having a path.
Unpathwayed (a.) Pathless.
Unpatience (n.) Impatience.
Unpatient (a.) Impatient.
Unpaved (a.) Not paved; not furnished with a pavement.
Unpaved (a.) Castrated.
Unpay (v. t.) To undo, take back, or annul, as a payment.
Unpeace (n.) Absence or lack of peace.
Unpedigreed (a.) Not distinguished by a pedigree.
Unpeeled (a.) Thoroughly stripped; pillaged.
Unpeeled (a.) Not peeled.
Unpeerable (a.) Incapable of having a peer, or equal.
Unpeered (a.) Having no peer; unequaled; unparalleled.
Unpeg (v. t.) To remove a peg or pegs from; to unfasten; to open.
Unpen (v. t.) To release from a pen or from confinement.
Unpenetrable (a.) Impenetrable.
Unpenitent (a.) Impenitent.
Unpeople (v. t.) To deprive of inhabitants; to depopulate.
Unperegal (a.) Unequal.
Unperfect (v. t.) To mar or destroy the perfection of.
Unperfect (a.) Imperfect.
Unperfection (n.) Want of perfection; imperfection.
Unperishable (a.) Imperishable.
Unperishably (adv.) Imperishably.
Unperplex (v. t.) To free from perplexity.
Unpersuasion (n.) The state of not being persuaded; disbelief; doubt.
Unpervert (v. t.) To free from perversion; to deliver from being perverted; to reconvert.
Unphilosophize (v. t.) To degrade from the character of a philosopher.
Unpick (v. t.) To pick out; to undo by picking.
Unpicked (a.) Picked out; picked open.
Unpicked (a.) Not picked.
Unpin (v. t.) To loose from pins; to remove the pins from; to unfasten; as, to unpin a frock; to unpin a frame.
Unpinion (v. t.) To loose from pinions or manacles; to free from restraint.
Unpitied (a.) Not pitied.
Unpitied (a.) Pitiless; merciless.
Unpitious (a.) Impious; wicked.
Unpitious (a.) Destitute of pity; pitiless.
Unpitousty (n.) Impiety.
Unpity (n.) Want of piety.
Unplacable (a.) Implacable.
Unplaced (a.) Not placed.
Unplaid (v. t.) To deprive of a plaid.
Unplained (a.) Not deplored or bewailed; unlamented.
Unplat (v. t.) To take out the folds or twists of, as something previously platted; to unfold; to unwreathe.
Unplausive (a.) Not approving; disapproving.
Unpleaded (a.) Not used as a plea; not urged; as, an unpleaded excuse.
Unpleaded (a.) Not supported by pleas; undefended; as, an unpleaded suit.
Unpleasant (a.) Not pleasant; not amiable or agreeable; displeasing; offensive.
Unpleasantries (pl. ) of Unpleasantry
Unpleasantry (n.) Want of pleasantry.
Unpleasantry (n.) A state of disagreement; a falling out.
Unpleasive (a.) Unpleasant.
Unpleat (v. t.) To remove the plaits of; to smooth.
Unplight (v. t.) To unfold; to lay open; to explain.
Unplumb (v. t.) To deprive of lead, as of a leaden coffin.
Unplume (v. t.) To strip of plumes or feathers; hence, to humiliate.
Unpoised (a.) Not poised or balanced.
Unpoised (a.) Not poised or weighed; hence, regardless of consequences; unhesitating.
Unpoison (v. t.) To remove or expel poison from.
Unpolicied (a.) Not having civil polity, or a regular form of government.
Unpolicied (a.) Impolitic; imprudent.
Unpolish (v. t.) To deprive of polish; to make impolite.
Unpolite (a.) Not polite; impolite; rude.
Unpolitic (a.) Impolitic; imprudent.
Unpolled (a.) Not polled.
Unpolled (a.) Not enumerated or registered; as, an unpolled vote or voter.
Unpolled (a.) Not plundered.
Unpope (v. t.) To divest of the character, office, or authority of a pope.
Unpope (v. t.) To deprive of a pope.
Unportunate (a.) Importunate; troublesome with requests.
Unportuous (a.) Having no ports.
Unpossess (v. t.) To be without, or to resign, possession of.
Unpossibility (n.) Impossibility.
Unpossible (a.) Impossible.
Unpower (n.) Want of power; weakness.
Unpowerful (a.) Not powerful; weak.
Unpracticable (a.) Impracticable; not feasible.
Unpractical (a.) Not practical; impractical.
Unpraise (v. t.) To withhold praise from; to deprive of praise.
Unpray (v. t.) To revoke or annul by prayer, as something previously prayed for.
Unprayable (a.) Not to be influenced or moved by prayers; obdurate.
Unprayed (a.) Not prayed for.
Unpreach (v. t.) To undo or overthrow by preaching.
Unprecedented (a.) Having no precedent or example; not preceded by a like case; not having the authority of prior example; novel; new; unexampled.
Unpredict (v. i.) To retract or falsify a previous prediction.
Unprejudiced (a.) Not prejudiced; free from undue bias or prepossession; not preoccupied by opinion; impartial; as, an unprejudiced mind; an unprejudiced judge.
Unprejudiced (a.) Not warped or biased by prejudice; as, an unprejudiced judgment.
Unprelated (a.) Deposed from the office of prelate.
Unprevented (a.) Not prevented or hindered; as, unprevented sorrows.
Unprevented (a.) Not preceded by anything.
Unpriced (a.) Not priced; being without a fixed or certain value; also, priceless.
Unpriest (v. t.) To deprive of priesthood; to unfrock.
Unprince (v. t.) To deprive of the character or authority of a prince; to divest of principality of sovereignty.
Unprinciple (v. t.) To destroy the moral principles of.
Unprincipled (a.) Being without principles; especially, being without right moral principles; also, characterized by absence of principle.
Unprison (v. t.) To take or deliver from prison.
Unprizable (a.) Not prized or valued; being without value.
Unprizable (a.) Invaluable; being beyond estimation.
Unprobably (adv.) Improbably.
Unprobably (adv.) In a manner not to be approved of; improperly.
Unproficiency (n.) Want of proficiency or improvement.
Unprofit (n.) Want of profit; unprofitableness.
Unprofited (a.) Profitless.
Unpromise (v. t.) To revoke or annul, as a promise.
Unprop (v. t.) To remove a prop or props from; to deprive of support.
Unproper (a.) Not proper or peculiar; improper.
Unproselyte (v. t.) To convert or recover from the state of a proselyte.
Unprotestantize (v. t.) To render other than Protestant; to cause to change from Protestantism to some other form of religion; to deprive of some Protestant feature or characteristic.
Unprovide (v. t.) To deprive of necessary provision; to unfurnish.
Unprovident (a.) Improvident.
Unprudence (n.) Imprudence.
Unprudent (a.) Imprudent.
Unprudential (a.) Imprudent.
Unpucker (v. t.) To smooth away the puckers or wrinkles of.
Unpure (a.) Not pure; impure.
Unpursed (a.) Robbed of a purse, or of money.
Unpursed (a.) Taken from the purse; expended.
Unqualify (v. t.) To disqualify; to unfit.
Unqualitied (a.) Deprived of the usual faculties.
Unqueen (v. t.) To divest of the rank or authority of queen.
Unquestionable (a.) Not questionable; as, an unquestionable title.
Unquestionable (a.) Not inviting questions or conversation.
Unquestioned (a.) Not called in question; not doubted.
Unquestioned (a.) Not interrogated; having no questions asked; not examined or examined into.
Unquestioned (a.) Indisputable; not to be opposed or impugned.
Unquick (a.) Not quick.
Unquiet (v. t.) To disquiet.
Unquiet (a.) Not quiet; restless; uneasy; agitated; disturbed.
Unquietude (n.) Uneasiness; inquietude.
Unravel (v. t.) To disentangle; to disengage or separate the threads of; as, to unravel a stocking.
Unravel (v. t.) Hence, to clear from complication or difficulty; to unfold; to solve; as, to unravel a plot.
Unravel (v. t.) To separate the connected or united parts of; to throw into disorder; to confuse.
Unravel (v. i.) To become unraveled, in any sense.
Unravelment (n.) The act of unraveling, or the state of being unraveled.
Unrazored (a.) Not shaven.
Unread (a.) Not read or perused; as, an unread book.
Unread (a.) Not versed in literature; illiterate.
Unreadiness (n.) The quality or state of being unready.
Unready (a.) Not ready or prepared; not prompt; slow; awkward; clumsy.
Unready (a.) Not dressed; undressed.
Unready (v. t.) To undress.
Unreal (a.) Not real; unsubstantial; fanciful; ideal.
Unreality (n.) The quality or state of being unreal; want of reality.
Unrealize (v. t.) To make unreal; to idealize.
Unreally (adv.) In an unreal manner; ideally.
Unreason (n.) Want of reason; unreasonableness; absurdity.
Unreason (v. t.) To undo, disprove, or refute by reasoning.
Unreasonable (a.) Not reasonable; irrational; immoderate; exorbitant.
Unreasoned (a.) Not supported by reason; unreasonable.
Unreave (v. t.) To unwind; to disentangle; to loose.
Unreaved (a.) Not torn, split, or parted; not torn to pieces.
Unrebukable (a.) Not deserving rebuke or censure; blameless.
Unrecuring (a.) Incurable.
Unredeemed (a.) Not redeemed.
Unreeve (v. t.) To withdraw, or take out, as a rope from a block, thimble, or the like.
Unreformation (n.) Want of reformation; state of being unreformed.
Unregeneracy (n.) The quality or state of being unregenerate.
Unregenerate (a.) Alt. of Unregenerated
Unregenerated (a.) Not regenerated; not renewed in heart; remaining or being at enmity with God.
Unregeneration (n.) Unregeneracy.
Unrein (v. t.) To loosen the reins of; to remove restraint from.
Unrelenting (a.) Not relenting; unyielding; rigid; hard; stern; cruel.
Unreliable (a.) Not reliable; untrustworthy. See Reliable.
Unreligious (a.) Irreligious.
Unremembrance (n.) Want of remembrance; forgetfulness.
Unremitting (a.) Not remitting; incessant; continued; persevering; as, unremitting exertions.
Unremorseless (a.) Utterly remorseless.
Unrepentance (n.) Impenitence.
Unreproachable (a.) Not liable to be reproached; irreproachable.
Unreprievable (a.) Not capable of being reprieved.
Unreproved (a.) Not reproved.
Unreproved (a.) Not having incurred reproof, blameless.
Unreputable (a.) Disreputable.
Unreserve (n.) Absence of reverse; frankness; freedom of communication.
Unreserved (a.) Not reserved; not kept back; not withheld in part; unrestrained.
Unresistance (n.) Nonresistance; passive submission; irresistance.
Unresisted (a.) Not resisted; unopposed.
Unresisted (a.) Resistless; as, unresisted fate.
Unresistible (a.) Irresistible.
Unrespect (n.) Disrespect.
Unresponsible (a.) Irresponsible.
Unrest (n.) Want of rest or repose; unquietness; sleeplessness; uneasiness; disquietude.
Unrestraint (n.) Freedom from restraint; freedom; liberty; license.
Unresty (a.) Causing unrest; disquieting; as, unresty sorrows.
Unrevenued (a.) Not furnished with a revenue.
Unreverence (n.) Absence or lack of reverence; irreverence.
Unreverend (a.) Not reverend.
Unreverend (a.) Disrespectful; irreverent.
Unreverent (a.) Irreverent.
Unreverently (adv.) Irreverently.
Unriddle (v. t. & i.) To read the riddle of; to solve or explain; as, to unriddle an enigma or a mystery.
Unriddler (n.) One who unriddles.
Unrig (v. t.) To strip of rigging; as, to unrig a ship.
Unright (a.) Not right; wrong.
Unright (n.) A wrong.
Unright (v. t.) To cause (something right) to become wrong.
Unrighteous (a.) Not righteous; evil; wicked; sinful; as, an unrighteous man.
Unrighteous (a.) Contrary to law and equity; unjust; as, an unrighteous decree or sentence.
Unrightwise (a.) Unrighteous.
Unringed (a.) Not having a ring, as in the nose.
Unrioted (a.) Free from rioting.
Unrip (v. t.) To rip; to cut open.
Unripe (a.) Not ripe; as, unripe fruit.
Unripe (a.) Developing too early; premature.
Unripeness (n.) Quality or state of being unripe.
Unrivaled (a.) Having no rival; without a competitor; peerless.
Unrivet (v. t.) To take out, or loose, the rivets of; as, to unrivet boiler plates.
Unrobe (v. t. & i.) To disrobe; to undress; to take off the robes.
Unroll (v. t.) To open, as what is rolled or convolved; as, to unroll cloth; to unroll a banner.
Unroll (v. t.) To display; to reveal.
Unroll (v. t.) To remove from a roll or register, as a name.
Un-Romanized (a.) Not subjected to Roman arms or customs.
Un-Romanized (a.) Not subjected to the principles or usages of the Roman Catholic Church.
Unroof (v. t.) To strip off the roof or covering of, as a house.
Unroofed (a.) Stripped of a roof, or similar covering.
Unroofed (a.) Not yet roofed.
Unroost (v. t.) To drive from the roost.
Unroot (v. t.) To tear up by the roots; to eradicate; to uproot.
Unroot (v. i.) To be torn up by the roots.
Unrude (a.) Not rude; polished.
Unrude (a.) Excessively rude.
Unruffle (v. i.) To cease from being ruffled or agitated.
Unruffled (a.) Not ruffled or agitated; smooth; calm; tranquil; quiet.
Unruinate (a.) Alt. of Unruinated
Unruinated (a.) Not ruined or destroyed.
Unruled (a.) Not governed or controlled.
Unruled (a.) Not ruled or marked with lines; as, unruled paper.
Unruliment (n.) Unruliness.
Unruliness (n.) Quality or state unruly.
Unruly (superl.) Not submissive to rule; disregarding restraint; disposed to violate; turbulent; ungovernable; refractory; as, an unruly boy; unruly boy; unruly conduct.
Unrumple (v. t.) To free from rumples; to spread or lay even,
Unsacrament (v. t.) To deprive of sacramental character or efficacy; as, to unsacrament the rite of baptism.
Unsad (a.) Unsteady; fickle.
Unsadden (v. t.) To relieve from sadness; to cheer.
Unsaddle (v. t.) To strip of a saddle; to take the saddle from, as a horse.
Unsaddle (v. t.) To throw from the saddle; to unhorse.
Unsadness (n.) Infirmity; weakness.
Unsafety (n.) The quality or state of being in peril; absence of safety; insecurity.
Unsaint (v. t.) To deprive of saintship; to deny sanctity to.
Unsaintly (a.) Unbecoming to a saint.
Unsalable (a.) Not salable; unmerchantable.
Unsalable (n.) That which can not be sold.
Unsanctification (n.) Absence or lack of sanctification.
Unsatiability (n.) Quality of being unsatiable; insatiability.
Unsatiable (a.) Insatiable.
Unsatiate (a.) Insatiate.
Unsatisfaction (n.) Dissatisfaction.
Unsaturated (a.) Capable of absorbing or dissolving to a greater degree; as, an unsaturated solution.
Unsaturated (a.) Capable of taking up, or of uniting with, certain other elements or compounds, without the elimination of any side product; thus, aldehyde, ethylene, and ammonia are unsaturated.
Unsaturation (n.) The quality or state of being unsaturated.
Unsay (v. t.) To recant or recall, as what has been said; to refract; to take back again; to make as if not said.
Unscale (v. t.) To divest of scales; to remove scales from.
Unscapable (a.) Not be escaped; inevitable.
Unsceptered (a.) Alt. of Unsceptred
Unsceptred (a.) Having no scepter.
Unsceptred (a.) Deprived of a scepter.
Unscience (n.) Want of science or knowledge; ignorance.
Unscrew (v. t.) To draw the screws from; to loose from screws; to loosen or withdraw (anything, as a screw) by turning it.
Unscrupulous (a.) Not scrupulous; unprincipled.
Unscrutable (a.) Inscrutable.
Unsoutcheoned (a.) Destitute of an escutcheon.
Unseal (v. t.) To break or remove the seal of; to open, as what is sealed; as, to unseal a letter.
Unseal (v. t.) To disclose, as a secret.
Unseam (v. t.) To open the seam or seams of; to rip; to cut; to cut open.
Unsearchable (a.) Not searchable; inscrutable; hidden; mysterious.
Unseason (v. t.) To make unseasoned; to deprive of seasoning.
Unseason (v. t.) To strike unseasonably; to affect disagreeably or unfavorably.
Unseasonable (a.) Not seasonable; being, done, or occurring out of the proper season; ill-timed; untimely; too early or too late; as, he called at an unseasonable hour; unseasonable advice; unseasonable frosts; unseasonable food.
Unseasoned (a.) Not seasoned.
Unseasoned (a.) Untimely; ill-timed.
Unseat (v. t.) To throw from one's seat; to deprive of a seat.
Unseat (v. t.) Specifically, to deprive of the right to sit in a legislative body, as for fraud in election.
Unseconded (a.) Not seconded; not supported, aided, or assisted; as, the motion was unseconded; the attempt was unseconded.
Unseconded (a.) Not exemplified a second time.
Unsecret (v. t.) To disclose; to divulge.
Unsecret (a.) Not secret; not close; not trusty; indiscreet.
Unsecularize (v. t.) To cause to become not secular; to detach from secular things; to alienate from the world.
Unsecure (a.) Insecure.
Unseel (v. t.) To open, as the eyes of a hawk that have been seeled; hence, to give light to; to enlighten.
Unseem (v. i.) Not to seem.
Unseeming (a.) Unbeseeming; not fit or becoming.
Unseemliness (n.) The quality or state of being unseemly; unbecomingness.
Unseemly (a.) Not seemly; unbecoming; indecent.
Unseemly (adv.) In an unseemly manner.
Unseen (a.) Not seen or discovered.
Unseen (a.) Unskilled; inexperienced.
Unseldom (adv.) Not seldom; frequently.
Unsely (a.) Not blessed or happy; wretched; unfortunate.
Unseminared (a.) Deprived of virility, or seminal energy; made a eunuch.
Unsensed (a.) Wanting a distinct meaning; having no certain signification.
Unsensible (a.) Insensible.
Unsensualize (v. t.) To elevate from the domain of the senses; to purify.
Unseparable (a.) Inseparable.
Unservice (n.) Neglect of duty; idleness; indolence.
Unset (a.) Not set; not fixed or appointed.
Unsettle (v. t.) To move or loosen from a settled position or state; to unfix; to displace; to disorder; to confuse.
Unsettle (v. i.) To become unsettled or unfixed; to be disordered.
Unsettledness (n.) The quality or state of being unsettled.
Unsettlement (n.) The act of unsettling, or state of being unsettled; disturbance.
Unseven (v. t.) To render other than seven; to make to be no longer seven.
Unsew (v. t.) To undo, as something sewn, or something inclosed by sewing; to rip apart; to take out the stitches of.
Unsexed (imp. & p. p.) of Unsex
Unsexing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Unsex
Unsex (v. t.) To deprive of sex, or of qualities becoming to one's sex; esp., to make unfeminine in character, manners, duties, or the like; as, to unsex a woman.
Unsexual (a.) Not sexual; not proper or peculiar to one of the sexes.
Unshackle (v. t.) To loose from shackles or bonds; to set free from restraint; to unfetter.
Unshakable (a.) Not capable of being shaken; firm; fixed.
Unshaked (a.) Unshaken.
Unshale (v. t.) To strip the shale, or husk, from; to uncover.
Unshape (v. t.) To deprive of shape, or of proper shape; to disorder; to confound; to derange.
Unshaped (a.) Alt. of Unshapen
Unshapen (a.) Not shaped; shapeless; misshapen; deformed; ugly.
Unsheathe (v. t.) To deprive of a sheath; to draw from the sheath or scabbard, as a sword.
Unshed (a.) Not parted or divided, as the hair.
Unshed (a.) Not spilt, or made to flow, as blood or tears.
Unshell (v. t.) To strip the shell from; to take out of the shell; to hatch.
Unshelve (v. t.) To remove from, or as from, a shelf.
Unshent (a.) Not shent; not disgraced; blameless.
Unsheriff (v. t.) To depose from the office of sheriff.
Unshet (v. t.) To unshut.
Unshiftable (a.) That may /ot be shifted.
Unshiftable (a.) Shiftless; helpless.
Unship (v. t.) To take out of a ship or vessel; as, to unship goods.
Unship (v. t.) To remove or detach, as any part or implement, from its proper position or connection when in use; as, to unship an oar; to unship capstan bars; to unship the tiller.
Unshipment (n.) The act of unshipping, or the state of being unshipped; displacement.
Unshot (v. t.) To remove the shot from, as from a shotted gun; to unload.
Unshot (a.) Not hit by a shot; also, not discharged or fired off.
Unshout (v. t.) To recall what is done by shouting.
Unshroud (v. t.) To remove the shroud from; to uncover.
Unshrubbed (a.) Being without shrubs.
Unshut (v. t.) To open, or throw open.
Unshutter (v. t.) To open or remove the shutters of.
Unsight (a.) Doing or done without sight; not seeing or examining.
Unsightable (a.) Invisible.
Unsighted (a.) Not sighted, or seen.
Unsighted (a.) Not aimed by means of a sight; also, not furnished with a sight, or with a properly adjusted sight; as, to shoot and unsighted rife or cannon.
Unsignificant (a.) Insignificant.
Unsilly (a.) See Unsely.
Unsimplicity (n.) Absence of simplicity; artfulness.
Unsin (v. t.) To deprive of sinfulness, as a sin; to make sinless.
Unsincere (a.) Not sincere or pure; insincere.
Unsincerity (n.) The quality or state of being unsincere or impure; insincerity.
Unsinew (v. t.) To deprive of sinews or of strength.
Unsister (v. t.) To separate, as sisters; to disjoin.
Unsisterly (a.) Not sisterly.
Unsisting (a.) Unresisting.
Unsitting (a.) Not sitting well; unbecoming.
Unskill (n.) Want of skill; ignorance; unskillfulness.
Unskillful (a.) Not skillful; inexperienced; awkward; bungling; as, an unskillful surgeon or mechanic; an unskillful logician.
Unskillful (a.) Lacking discernment; injudicious; ignorant.
Unslacked (a.) Not slacked; unslaked; as, unslacked lime.
Unslaked (a.) Not slaked; unslacked; as, an unslaked thirst; unslaked lime.
Unsling (v. t.) To take off the slings of, as a yard, a cask, or the like; to release from the slings.
Unsluice (v. t.) To sluice; to open the sluice or sluices of; to let flow; to discharge.
Unsociability (n.) The quality or state of being unsociable; unsociableness.
Unsociable (a.) Not sociable; not inclined to society; averse to companionship or conversation; solitary; reserved; as, an unsociable person or temper.
Unsocket (v. t.) To loose or take from a socket.
Unsoft (a.) Not soft; hard; coarse; rough.
Unsoft (adv.) Not softly.
Unsolder (v. t.) To separate or disunite, as what has been soldered; hence, to divide; to sunder.
Unsoldiered (a.) Not equipped like a soldier; unsoldierlike.
Unsolemnize (v. t.) To divest of solemnity.
Unsonable (a.) Incapable of being sounded.
Unsonsy (a.) Not soncy (sonsy); not fortunate.
Unsoot (a.) Not sweet.
Unsophisticate (a.) Alt. of Unsophisticated
Unsophisticated (a.) Not sophisticated; pure; innocent; genuine.
Unsorrowed (a.) Not sorrowed for; unlamented.
Unsorted (a.) Not sorted; not classified; as, a lot of unsorted goods.
Unsorted (a.) Not well selected; ill-chosen.
Unsoul (v. t.) To deprive of soul, spirit, or principle.
Unsound (a.) Not sound; not whole; not solid; defective; infirm; diseased.
Unspar (v. t.) To take the spars, stakes, or bars from.
Unsparing (a.) Not sparing; not parsimonious; liberal; profuse.
Unsparing (a.) Not merciful or forgiving.
Unspeak (v. t.) To retract, as what has been spoken; to recant; to unsay.
Unspeakable (a.) Not speakable; incapable of being uttered or adequately described; inexpressible; unutterable; ineffable; as, unspeakable grief or rage.
Unspecialized (a.) Not specialized; specifically (Biol.), not adapted, or set apart, for any particular purpose or function; as, an unspecialized unicellular organism.
Unsped (a.) Not performed; not dispatched.
Unspell (v. t.) To break the power of (a spell); to release (a person) from the influence of a spell; to disenchant.
Unsphere (v. t.) To remove, as a planet, from its sphere or orb.
Unspike (v. t.) To remove a spike from, as from the vent of a cannon.
Unspilt (a.) Not spilt or wasted; not shed.
Unspin (v. t.) To untwist, as something spun.
Unspirit (v. t.) To dispirit.
Unspiritalize (v. t.) To deprive of spiritually.
Unspleened (a.) Deprived of a spleen.
Unspotted (a.) Not spotted; free from spot or stain; especially, free from moral stain; unblemished; immaculate; as, an unspotted reputation.
Unsquire (v. t.) To divest of the title or privilege of an esquire.
Unstable (a.) Not stable; not firm, fixed, or constant; subject to change or overthrow.
Unstack (v. t.) To remove, or take away, from a stack; to remove, as something constituting a stack.
Unstarch (v. t.) To free from starch; to make limp or pliable.
Unstate (v. t.) To deprive of state or dignity.
Unsteel (v. t.) To disarm; to soften.
Unstep (v. t.) To remove, as a mast, from its step.
Unstick (v. t.) To release, as one thing stuck to another.
Unstill (a.) Not still; restless.
Unsting (v. t.) To disarm of a sting; to remove the sting of.
Unstitch (v. t.) To open by picking out stitches; to take out, or undo, the stitches of; as, to unstitch a seam.
Unstock (v. t.) To deprive of a stock; to remove the stock from; to loose from that which fixes, or holds fast.
Unstock (v. t.) To remove from the stocks, as a ship.
Unstockinged (a.) Destitute of stockings.
Unstockinged (a.) Deprived of stockings.
Unstop (v. t.) To take the stopple or stopper from; as, to unstop a bottle or a cask.
Unstop (v. t.) To free from any obstruction; to open.
Unstrain (v. t.) To relieve from a strain; to relax.
Unstrained (a.) Not strained; not cleared or purified by straining; as, unstrained oil or milk.
Unstrained (a.) Not forced; easy; natural; as, a unstrained deduction or inference.
Unstratified (a.) Not stratified; -- applied to massive rocks, as granite, porphyry, etc., and also to deposits of loose material, as the glacial till, which occur in masses without layers or strata.
Unstrength (n.) Want of strength; weakness; feebleness.
Unstriated (a.) Nonstriated; unstriped.
Unstring (v. t.) To deprive of a string or strings; also, to take from a string; as, to unstring beads.
Unstring (v. t.) To loosen the string or strings of; as, to unstring a harp or a bow.
Unstring (v. t.) To relax the tension of; to loosen.
Unstring (v. t.) Used also figuratively; as, his nerves were unstrung by fear.
Unstriped (a.) Not striped.
Unstriped (a.) Without marks or striations; nonstriated; as, unstriped muscle fibers.
Unstudied (a.) Not studied; not acquired by study; unlabored; natural.
Unstudied (a.) Not skilled; unversed; -- followed by in.
Unstudied (a.) Not spent in study.
Unsubstantial (a.) Lacking in matter or substance; visionary; chimerical.
Unsubstantialize (v. t.) To make unsubstantial.
Unsubstantiation (n.) A divesting of substantiality.
Unsucceedable (a.) Not able or likely to succeed.
Unsuccess (n.) Want of success; failure; misfortune.
Unsuccessful (a.) Not successful; not producing the desired event; not fortunate; meeting with, or resulting in, failure; unlucky; unhappy.
Unsufferable (a.) Insufferable.
Unsuffering (n.) Inability or incapability of enduring, or of being endured.
Unsufficience (n.) Alt. of Unsufficiency
Unsufficiency (n.) Insufficiency.
Unsufficient (a.) Insufficient.
Unsuit (v. t.) Not to suit; to be unfit for.
Unsupportable (a.) Insupportable; unendurable.
Unsured (a.) Not made sure.
Unsurety (n.) Want of surety; uncertainty; insecurity; doubt.
Unsurmountable (a.) Insurmountable.
Unsuspicion (n.) The quality or state of being unsuspecting.
Unswaddle (v. t.) To take a swaddle from; to unswathe.
Unswathe (v. t.) To take a swathe from; to relieve from a bandage; to unswaddle.
Unswayable (a.) Not capable of being swayed.
Unswear (v. t.) To recant or recall, as an oath; to recall after having sworn; to abjure.
Unswear (v. i.) To recall an oath.
Unsweat (v. t.) To relieve from perspiration; to ease or cool after exercise or toil.
Unswell (v. t.) To sink from a swollen state; to subside.
Unsymmetrical (a.) Wanting in symmetry, or due proportion pf parts.
Unsymmetrical (a.) Not symmetrical; being without symmetry, as the parts of a flower when similar parts are of different size and shape, or when the parts of successive circles differ in number. See Symmetry.
Unsymmetrical (a.) Being without symmetry of chemical structure or relation; as, an unsymmetrical carbon atom.
Unsymmetrically (adv.) Not symmetrically.
Unsympathy (n.) Absence or lack of sympathy.
Untack (v. t.) To separate, as what is tacked; to disjoin; to release.
Untackle (v. t.) To unbitch; to unharness.
Untalked (a.) Not talked; not mentioned; -- often with of.
Untangibility (n.) Intangibility.
Untangible (a.) Intangible.
Untangibly (adv.) Intangibly.
Untangle (v. t.) To loose from tangles or intricacy; to disentangle; to resolve; as, to untangle thread.
Untappice (v. i.) to come out of concealment.
Untaste (v. t.) To deprive of a taste for a thing.
Unteach (v. t.) To cause to forget, or to lose from memory, or to disbelieve what has been taught.
Unteach (v. t.) To cause to be forgotten; as, to unteach what has been learned.
Unteam (v. t.) To unyoke a team from.
Untemper (v. t.) To deprive of temper, or of the proper degree of temper; to make soft.
Untemperate (a.) Intemperate.
Untemperately (adv.) Intemperately.
Untempter (n.) One who does not tempt, or is not a tempter.
Untenant (v. t.) To remove a tenant from.
Untent (v. t.) To bring out of a tent.
Untented (a.) Having no tent or tents, as a soldier or a field.
Untented (a.) Not tended; not dressed. See 4th Tent.
Unthank (n.) No thanks; ill will; misfortune.
Unthink (v. t.) To recall or take back, as something thought.
Unthinker (n.) A person who does not think, or does not think wisely.
Unthinking (a.) Not thinking; not heedful; thoughtless; inconsiderate; as, unthinking youth.
Unthinking (a.) Not indicating thought or reflection; thoughtless.
Unthread (v. t.) To draw or take out a thread from; as, to unthread a needle.
Unthread (v. t.) To deprive of ligaments; to loose the ligaments of.
Unthread (v. t.) To make one's way through; to traverse; as, to unthread a devious path.
Untrift (n.) Want of thrift; untriftiness; prodigality.
Untrift (n.) An unthrifty.
Unthrift (a.) Unthrifty.
Unthriftfully (adv.) Not thriftily.
Unthriftihead (n.) Alt. of Unthriftihood
Unthriftihood (n.) Untriftiness.
Unthriftily (adv.) Not thriftily.
Unthriftily (adv.) Improperly; unbecomingly.
Unthriftiness (n.) The quality or state or being unthrifty; profuseness; lavishness.
Unthrifty (a.) Not thrifty; profuse.
Unthrone (v. t.) To remove from, or as from, a throne; to dethrone.
Untidy (a.) Unseasonable; untimely.
Untidy (a.) Not tidy or neat; slovenly.
Untie (v. t.) To loosen, as something interlaced or knotted; to disengage the parts of; as, to untie a knot.
Untie (v. t.) To free from fastening or from restraint; to let loose; to unbind.
Untie (v. t.) To resolve; to unfold; to clear.
Untie (v. i.) To become untied or loosed.
Untighten (v. t.) To make less tight or tense; to loosen.
Until (prep.) To; unto; towards; -- used of material objects.
Until (prep.) To; up to; till; before; -- used of time; as, he staid until evening; he will not come back until the end of the month.
Until (conj.) As far as; to the place or degree that; especially, up to the time that; till. See Till, conj.
Untile (v. t.) To take the tiles from; to uncover by removing the tiles.
Untime (n.) An unseasonable time.
Untimeliness (n.) Unseasonableness.
Untimely (a.) Not timely; done or happening at an unnatural, unusual, or improper time; unseasonable; premature; inopportune; as, untimely frosts; untimely remarks; an untimely death.
Untimely (adv.) Out of the natural or usual time; inopportunely; prematurely; unseasonably.
Untimeous (a.) Untimely.
Untimeously (adv.) Untimely; unseasonably.
Untithed (a.) Not subjected tithes.
Untitled (a.) Not titled; having no title, or appellation of dignity or distinction.
Untitled (a.) Being without title or right; not entitled.
Unto (prep.) To; -- now used only in antiquated, formal, or scriptural style. See To.
Unto (prep.) Until; till.
Unto (conj.) Until; till.
Untold (a.) Not told; not related; not revealed; as, untold secrets.
Untold (a.) Not numbered or counted; as, untold money.
Untolerable (a.) Intolerable.
Untomb (v. t.) To take from the tomb; to exhume; to disinter.
Untongue (v. t.) To deprive of a tongue, or of voice.
Untooth (v. t.) To take out the teeth of.
Untoward (prep.) Toward.
Untoward (a.) Froward; perverse.
Untoward (a.) Awkward; ungraceful.
Untoward (a.) Inconvenient; troublesome; vexatious; unlucky; unfortunate; as, an untoward wind or accident.
Untowardly (a.) Perverse; froward; untoward.
Untraded (a.) Not dealt with in trade; not visited for purposes of trade.
Untraded (a.) Unpracticed; inexperienced.
Untraded (a.) Not traded in or bartered; hence, not hackneyed; unusual; not common.
Untrained (a.) Not trained.
Untrained (a.) Not trainable; indocile.
Untrammeled (a.) Not hampered or impeded; free.
Untraveled (a.) Not traveled; not trodden by passengers; as, an untraveled forest.
Untraveled (a.) Having never visited foreign countries; not having gained knowledge or experience by travel; as, an untraveled Englishman.
Untread (v. t.) To tread back; to retrace.
Untreasure (v. t.) To bring forth or give up, as things previously treasured.
Untreasured (a.) Deprived of treasure.
Untreasured (a.) Not treasured; not kept as treasure.
Untreatable (a.) Incapable of being treated; not practicable.
Untrenched (a.) Being without trenches; whole; intact.
Untressed (a.) Not tied up in tresses; unarranged; -- said of the hair.
Untrowable (a.) Incredible.
Untrue (a.) Not true; false; contrary to the fact; as, the story is untrue.
Untrue (a.) Not faithful; inconstant; false; disloyal.
Untrue (adv.) Untruly.
Untruism (n.) Something not true; a false statement.
Untrunked (a.) Separated from its trunk or stock.
Untruss (v. t.) To loose from a truss, or as from a truss; to untie or unfasten; to let out; to undress.
Untruss (n.) Alt. of Untrusser
Untrusser (n.) One who untrussed persons for the purpose of flogging them; a public whipper.
Untrust (n.) Distrust.
Untrustful (a.) Not trustful or trusting.
Untrustful (a.) Not to be trusted; not trusty.
Untruth (n.) The quality of being untrue; contrariety to truth; want of veracity; also, treachery; faithlessness; disloyalty.
Untruth (n.) That which is untrue; a false assertion; a falsehood; a lie; also, an act of treachery or disloyalty.
Untruthful (a.) Not truthful; unveracious; contrary to the truth or the fact.
Untuck (v. t.) To unfold or undo, as a tuck; to release from a tuck or fold.
Untune (v. t.) To make incapable of harmony, or of harmonious action; to put out of tune.
Unturn (v. t.) To turn in a reserve way, especially so as to open something; as, to unturn a key.
Unturned (a.) Not turned; not revolved or reversed.
Untwain (v. t.) To rend in twain; to tear in two.
Untwine (v. t.) To untwist; to separate, as that which is twined or twisted; to disentangle; to untie.
Untwine (v. i.) To become untwined.
Untwirl (v. t.) To untwist; to undo.
Untwist (v. t.) To separate and open, as twisted threads; to turn back, as that which is twisted; to untwine.
Untwist (v. t.) To untie; to open; to disentangle.
Unty (v. t.) To untie.
Unusage (n.) Want or lack of usage.
Unused (a.) Not used; as, an unused book; an unused apartment.
Unused (a.) Not habituated; unaccustomed.
Unusual (a.) Not usual; uncommon; rare; as, an unusual season; a person of unusual grace or erudition.
Unusuality (n.) Unusualness.
Unutterable (a.) Not utterable; incapable of being spoken or voiced; inexpressible; ineffable; unspeakable; as, unutterable anguish.
Unvail (v. t. & i.) See Unveil.
Unvaluable (a.) Invaluable; being beyond price.
Unvaluable (a.) Not valuable; having little value.
Unvalued (a.) Not valued; not appraised; hence, not considered; disregarded; valueless; as, an unvalued estate.
Unvalued (a.) Having inestimable value; invaluable.
Unvariable (a.) Invariable.
Unveil (v. t.) To remove a veil from; to divest of a veil; to uncover; to disclose to view; to reveal; as, she unveiled her face.
Unveil (v. i.) To remove a veil; to reveal one's self.
Unveiler (n.) One who removes a veil.
Unveracity (n.) Want of veracity; untruthfulness; as, unveracity of heart.
Unvessel (v. t.) To cause to be no longer a vessel; to empty.
Unvicar (v. t.) To deprive of the position or office a vicar.
Unviolable (a.) Inviolable.
Unvisard (v. t.) To take the vizard or mask from; to unmask.
Unvisible (a.) Invisible.
Unvisibly (adv.) Invisibly.
Unvitiated (a.) Not vitiated; pure.
Unvoluntary (a.) Involuntary.
Unvote (v. t.) To reverse or annul by vote, as a former vote.
Unvoweled (a.) Having no vowel sounds or signs.
Unvulgarize (v. t.) To divest of vulgarity; to make to be not vulgar.
Unvulnerable (a.) Invulnerable.
Unware (a.) Unaware; not foreseeing; being off one's guard.
Unware (a.) Happening unexpectedly; unforeseen.
Unwares (adv.) Unawares; unexpectedly; -- sometimes preceded by at.
Unwarily (adv.) In an unwary manner.
Unwariness (n.) The quality or state of being unwary; carelessness; heedlessness.
Unwarm (v. t.) To lose warmth; to grow cold.
Unwarp (v. t.) To restore from a warped state; to cause to be linger warped.
Unwarped (a.) Not warped; hence, not biased; impartial.
Unwarrantable (a.) Not warrantable; indefensible; not vindicable; not justifiable; illegal; unjust; improper.
Unwarranted (a.) Not warranted; being without warrant, authority, or guaranty; unwarrantable.
Unwary (a.) Not vigilant against danger; not wary or cautious; unguarded; precipitate; heedless; careless.
Unwary (a.) Unexpected; unforeseen; unware.
Unwashed (a.) Not washed or cleansed; filthy; unclean.
Unwashen (a.) Not washed.
Unwayed (a.) Not used to travel; as, colts that are unwayed.
Unwayed (a.) Having no ways or roads; pathless.
Unwearied (a.) Not wearied; not fatigued or tired; hence, persistent; not tiring or wearying; indefatigable.
Unweary (v. t.) To cause to cease being weary; to refresh.
Unweave (v. t.) To unfold; to undo; to ravel, as what has been woven.
Unwedgeable (a.) Not to be split with wedges.
Unweeting (a.) Unwitting.
Unweighed (a.) Not weighed; not pondered or considered; as, an unweighed statement.
Unweighing (a.) Not weighing or pondering; inconsiderate.
Unweld (a.) Alt. of Unweldy
Unweldy (a.) Unwieldy; unmanageable; clumsy.
Unwell (a.) Not well; indisposed; not in good health; somewhat ill; ailing.
Unwell (a.) Specifically, ill from menstruation; affected with, or having, catamenial; menstruant.
Unwellness (n.) Quality or state of being unwell.
Unwemmed (a.) Not blemished; undefiled; pure.
Unwhole (a.) Not whole; unsound.
Unwieldy (a.) Not easily wielded or carried; unmanageable; bulky; ponderous.
Unwild (v. t.) To tame; to subdue.
Unwill (v. t.) To annul or reverse by an act of the will.
Unwilled (a.) Deprived of the faculty of will or volition.
Unwilling (a.) Not willing; loath; disinclined; reluctant; as, an unwilling servant.
Unwind (v. t.) To wind off; to loose or separate, as what or convolved; to untwist; to untwine; as, to unwind thread; to unwind a ball of yarn.
Unwind (v. t.) To disentangle.
Unwind (v. i.) To be or become unwound; to be capable of being unwound or untwisted.
Unwisdom (n.) Want of wisdom; unwise conduct or action; folly; simplicity; ignorance.
Unwise (a.) Not wise; defective in wisdom; injudicious; indiscreet; foolish; as, an unwise man; unwise kings; unwise measures.
Unwisely (adv.) In an unwise manner; foolishly.
Unwish (v. t.) To wish not to be; to destroy by wishing.
Unwist (a.) Not known; unknown.
Unwist (a.) Not knowing; unwitting.
Unwit (v. t.) To deprive of wit.
Unwit (n.) Want of wit or understanding; ignorance.
Unwitch (v. t.) To free from a witch or witches; to fee from witchcraft.
Unwitting (a.) Not knowing; unconscious; ignorant.
Unwoman (v. t.) To deprive of the qualities of a woman; to unsex.
Unwonder (v. t.) To divest of the quality of wonder or mystery; to interpret; to explain.
Unwont (a.) Unwonted; unused; unaccustomed.
Unwonted (a.) Not wonted; unaccustomed; unused; not made familiar by practice; as, a child unwonted to strangers.
Unwonted (a.) Uncommon; unusual; infrequent; rare; as, unwonted changes.
Unwork (v. t.) To undo or destroy, as work previously done.
Unworldly (a.) Not worldly; spiritual; holy.
Unwormed (a.) Not wormed; not having had the worm, or lytta, under the tongue cut out; -- said of a dog.
Unworship (v. t.) To deprive of worship or due honor; to dishonor.
Unworship (n.) Lack of worship or respect; dishonor.
Unworth (a.) Unworthy.
Unworth (n.) Unworthiness.
Unworthy (a.) Not worthy; wanting merit, value, or fitness; undeserving; worthless; unbecoming; -- often with of.
Unwrap (v. t.) To open or undo, as what is wrapped or folded.
Unwray (v. t.) See Unwrie.
Unwreathe (v. t.) To untwist, uncoil, or untwine, as anything wreathed.
Unwrie (v. t.) To uncover.
Unwrinkle (v. t.) To reduce from a wrinkled state; to smooth.
Unwrite (v. t.) To cancel, as what is written; to erase.
Unwritten (a.) Not written; not reduced to writing; oral; as, unwritten agreements.
Unwritten (a.) Containing no writing; blank; as, unwritten paper.
Unwroken (a.) Not revenged; unavenged.
Unyoke (v. t.) To loose or free from a yoke.
Unyoke (v. t.) To part; to disjoin; to disconnect.
Unyoked (a.) Not yet yoked; not having worn the yoke.
Unyoked (a.) Freed or loosed from a yoke.
Unyoked (a.) Licentious; unrestrained.
Unyolden (a.) Not yielded.
Unzoned (a.) Not zoned; not bound with a girdle; as, an unzoned bosom.
Up (adv.) Aloft; on high; in a direction contrary to that of gravity; toward or in a higher place or position; above; -- the opposite of down.
Up (adv.) From a lower to a higher position, literally or figuratively; as, from a recumbent or sitting position; from the mouth, toward the source, of a river; from a dependent or inferior condition; from concealment; from younger age; from a quiet state, or the like; -- used with verbs of motion expressed or implied.
Up (adv.) In a higher place or position, literally or figuratively; in the state of having arisen; in an upright, or nearly upright, position; standing; mounted on a horse; in a condition of elevation, prominence, advance, proficiency, excitement, insurrection, or the like; -- used with verbs of rest, situation, condition, and the like; as, to be up on a hill; the lid of the box was up; prices are up.
Up (adv.) To or in a position of equal advance or equality; not short of, back of, less advanced than, away from, or the like; -- usually followed by to or with; as, to be up to the chin in water; to come up with one's companions; to come up with the enemy; to live up to engagements.
Up (adv.) To or in a state of completion; completely; wholly; quite; as, in the phrases to eat up; to drink up; to burn up; to sum up; etc.; to shut up the eyes or the mouth; to sew up a rent.
Up (adv.) Aside, so as not to be in use; as, to lay up riches; put up your weapons.
Up (prep.) From a lower to a higher place on, upon, or along; at a higher situation upon; at the top of.
Up (prep.) From the coast towards the interior of, as a country; from the mouth towards the source of, as a stream; as, to journey up the country; to sail up the Hudson.
Up (prep.) Upon.
Up (n.) The state of being up or above; a state of elevation, prosperity, or the like; -- rarely occurring except in the phrase ups and downs.
Up (a.) Inclining up; tending or going up; upward; as, an up look; an up grade; the up train.
Upas (n.) A tree (Antiaris toxicaria) of the Breadfruit family, common in the forests of Java and the neighboring islands. Its secretions are poisonous, and it has been fabulously reported that the atmosphere about it is deleterious. Called also bohun upas.
Upas (n.) A virulent poison used in Java and the adjacent islands for poisoning arrows. One kind, upas antiar, is, derived from upas tree (Antiaris toxicaria). Upas tieute is prepared from a climbing plant (Strychnos Tieute).
Upbar (v. t.) To fasten with a bar.
Upbar (v. t.) To remove the bar or bards of, as a gate; to under.
Upbear (v. t.) To bear up; to raise aloft; to support in an elevated situation; to sustain.
Upbind (v. t.) To bind up.
Upblow (v. t.) To inflate.
Upblow (v. i.) To blow up; as, the wind upblows from the sea.
Upbraided (imp. & p. p.) of Upbraid
Upbraiding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Upbraid
Upbraid (v. t.) To charge with something wrong or disgraceful; to reproach; to cast something in the teeth of; -- followed by with or for, and formerly of, before the thing imputed.
Upbraid (v. t.) To reprove severely; to rebuke; to chide.
Upbraid (v. t.) To treat with contempt.
Upbraid (v. t.) To object or urge as a matter of reproach; to cast up; -- with to before the person.
Upbraid (v. i.) To utter upbraidings.
Upbraid (n.) The act of reproaching; contumely.
Upbreak (v. i.) To break upwards; to force away or passage to the surface.
Upbreak (n.) A breaking upward or bursting forth; an upburst.
Upbreathe (v. r.) To breathe up or out; to exhale.
Upbreed (v. t.) To rear, or bring up; to nurse.
Upbrought (a.) Brought up; educated.
Upbuoyance (n.) The act of buoying up; uplifting.
Upburst (n.) The act of bursting upwards; a breaking through to the surface; an upbreak or uprush; as, an upburst of molten matter.
Upcast (a.) Cast up; thrown upward; as, with upcast eyes.
Upcast (n.) A cast; a throw.
Upcast (n.) The ventilating shaft of a mine out of which the air passes after having circulated through the mine; -- distinguished from the downcast. Called also upcast pit, and upcast shaft.
Upcast (n.) An upset, as from a carriage.
Upcast (n.) A taunt; a reproach.
Upcast (v. t.) To cast or throw up; to turn upward.
Upcast (v. t.) To taunt; to reproach; to upbraid.
Upcaught (a.) Seized or caught up.
Upcheer (v. t.) To cheer up.
Upclimb (v. t. & i.) To climb up; to ascend.
Upcoil (v. t. & i.) To coil up; to make into a coil, or to be made into a coil.
Upcountry (adv.) In an upcountry direction; as, to live upcountry.
Upcountry (a.) Living or situated remote from the seacoast; as, an upcountry residence.
Upcountry (n.) The interior of the country.
Upcurl (v. t.) To curl up.
Updive (v. i.) To spring upward; to rise.
Updraw (v. t.) To draw up.
Upend (v. t.) To end up; to set on end, as a cask.
Upeygan (n.) The borele.
Upfill (v. t.) To fill up.
Upflow (v. i.) To flow or stream up.
Upflung (a.) Flung or thrown up.
Upgather (v. t.) To gather up; to contract; to draw together.
Upgaze (v. i.) To gaze upward.
Upgive (v. t.) To give up or out.
Upgrow (v. i.) To grow up.
Upgrowth (n.) The process or result of growing up; progress; development.
Upgush (n.) A gushing upward.
Upgush (v. i.) To gush upward.
Uphaf () imp. of Upheave.
Uphand (a.) Lifted by the hand, or by both hands; as, the uphand sledge.
Uphang (v. t.) To hang up.
Uphasp (v. t.) To hasp or faster up; to close; as, sleep uphasps the eyes.
Upheaped (a.) Piled up; accumulated.
Upheaval (n.) The act of upheaving, or the state of being upheaved; esp., an elevation of a portion of the earth's crust.
Upheave (v. t.) To heave or lift up from beneath; to raise.
Upheld () imp. & p. p. of Uphold.
Upher (n.) A fir pole of from four to seven inches diameter, and twenty to forty feet long, sometimes roughly hewn, used for scaffoldings, and sometimes for slight and common roofs, for which use it is split.
Uphill (adv.) Upwards on, or as on, a hillside; as, to walk uphill.
Uphill (a.) Ascending; going up; as, an uphill road.
Uphill (a.) Attended with labor; difficult; as, uphill work.
Uphilt (v. t.) To thrust in up to the hilt; as, to uphilt one's sword into an enemy.
Uphoard (v. t.) To hoard up.
Uphold (v. t.) To hold up; to lift on high; to elevate.
Uphold (v. t.) To keep erect; to support; to sustain; to keep from falling; to maintain.
Uphold (v. t.) To aid by approval or encouragement; to countenance; as, to uphold a person in wrongdoing.
Upholder (n.) A broker or auctioneer; a tradesman.
Upholder (n.) An undertaker, or provider for funerals.
Upholder (n.) An upholsterer.
Upholder (n.) One who, or that which, upholds; a supporter; a defender; a sustainer.
Upholster (v. t.) To furnish (rooms, carriages, bedsteads, chairs, etc.) with hangings, coverings, cushions, etc.; to adorn with furnishings in cloth, velvet, silk, etc.; as, to upholster a couch; to upholster a room with curtains.
Upholster (n.) A broker.
Upholster (n.) An upholsterer.
Upholsterer (n.) One who provides hangings, coverings, cushions, curtains, and the like; one who upholsters.
Upholstery (n.) The articles or goods supplied by upholsterers; the business or work of an upholsterer.
Uphroe (n.) Same as Euphroe.
Upland (n.) High land; ground elevated above the meadows and intervals which lie on the banks of rivers, near the sea, or between hills; land which is generally dry; -- opposed to lowland, meadow, marsh, swamp, interval, and the like.
Upland (n.) The country, as distinguished from the neighborhood of towns.
Upland (a.) Of or pertaining to uplands; being on upland; high in situation; as, upland inhabitants; upland pasturage.
Upland (a.) Pertaining to the country, as distinguished from the neighborhood of towns; rustic; rude; unpolished.
Uplander (n.) One dwelling in the upland; hence, a countryman; a rustic.
Uplander (n.) The upland sandpiper.
Uplandish (a.) Of or pertaining to uplands; dwelling on high lands.
Uplandish (a.) Rude; rustic; unpolished; uncivilized.
Uplay (v. t.) To hoard.
Uplead (v. t.) To lead upward.
Uplean (v. i.) To lean or incline upon anything.
Uplifting (imp. & p. p.) of Uplift
Uplift (v. t.) To lift or raise aloft; to raise; to elevate; as, to uplift the arm; to uplift a rock.
Uplift (n.) A raising or upheaval of strata so as to disturb their regularity and uniformity, and to occasion folds, dislocations, and the like.
Up-line (n.) A line or track leading from the provinces toward the metropolis or a principal terminus; the track upon which up-trains run. See Up-train.
Uplock (v. t.) To lock up.
Uplook (v. i.) To look or gaze up.
Upmost (a.) Highest; topmost; uppermost.
Upokororo (n.) An edible fresh-water New Zealand fish (Prototroctes oxyrhynchus) of the family Haplochitonidae. In general appearance and habits, it resembles the northern lake whitefishes and trout. Called also grayling.
Upon (prep.) On; -- used in all the senses of that word, with which it is interchangeable.
Uppent (a.) A Pent up; confined.
Upper (comp.) Being further up, literally or figuratively; higher in place, position, rank, dignity, or the like; superior; as, the upper lip; the upper side of a thing; the upper house of a legislature.
Upper (n.) The upper leather for a shoe; a vamp.
Uppermost (a.) Highest in place, position, rank, power, or the like; upmost; supreme.
Uppertendom (n.) The highest class in society; the upper ten. See Upper ten, under Upper.
Uppile (v. t.) To pile, or heap, up.
Uppish (a.) Proud; arrogant; assuming; putting on airs of superiority.
Upplight () imp. & p. p. of Uppluck.
Uppluck (v. t.) To pull or pluck up.
Uppricked (a.) Upraised; erect; -- said of the ears of an animal.
Upprop (v. t.) To prop up.
Upraise (v. t.) To raise; to lift up.
Uprear (v. t.) To raise; to erect.
Upridged (a.) Raised up in a ridge or ridges; as, a billow upridged.
Upright (a.) In an erect position or posture; perpendicular; vertical, or nearly vertical; pointing upward; as, an upright tree.
Upright (a.) Morally erect; having rectitude; honest; just; as, a man upright in all his ways.
Upright (a.) Conformable to moral rectitude.
Upright (a.) Stretched out face upward; flat on the back.
Upright (n.) Something standing upright, as a piece of timber in a building. See Illust. of Frame.
Uprighteously (adv.) In an upright or just manner.
Uprightly (adv.) In an upright manner.
Uprightness (n.) the quality or state of being upright.
Uprise (v. i.) To rise; to get up; to appear from below the horizon.
Uprise (v. i.) To have an upward direction or inclination.
Uprise (n.) The act of rising; appearance above the horizon; rising.
Uprising (n.) Act of rising; also, a steep place; an ascent.
Uprising (n.) An insurrection; a popular revolt.
Uprist (n.) Uprising.
Uprist () imp. of Uprise. Uprose.
Uproar (n.) Great tumult; violent disturbance and noise; noisy confusion; bustle and clamor.
Uproar (v. t.) To throw into uproar or confusion.
Uproar (v. i.) To make an uproar.
Uproarious (a.) Making, or accompanied by, uproar, or noise and tumult; as, uproarious merriment.
Uproll (v. t.) To roll up.
Uproot (v. t.) To root up; to tear up by the roots, or as if by the roots; to remove utterly; to eradicate; to extirpate.
Uprouse (v. t.) To rouse up; to rouse from sleep; to awake; to arouse.
Uprun (v. i.) To run up; to ascend.
Uprush (v. i.) To rush upward.
Uprush (n.) Act of rushing upward; an upbreak or upburst; as, an uprush of lava.
Upsarokas (n. pl.) See Crows.
Upseek (v. i.) To seek or strain upward.
Upsend (v. t.) To send, cast, or throw up.
Upset (v. t.) To set up; to put upright.
Upset (v. t.) To thicken and shorten, as a heated piece of iron, by hammering on the end.
Upset (v. t.) To shorten (a tire) in the process of resetting, originally by cutting it and hammering on the ends.
Upset (v. t.) To overturn, overthrow, or overset; as, to upset a carriage; to upset an argument.
Upset (v. t.) To disturb the self-possession of; to disorder the nerves of; to make ill; as, the fright upset her.
Upset (v. i.) To become upset.
Upset (a.) Set up; fixed; determined; -- used chiefly or only in the phrase upset price; that is, the price fixed upon as the minimum for property offered in a public sale, or, in an auction, the price at which property is set up or started by the auctioneer, and the lowest price at which it will be sold.
Upset (n.) The act of upsetting, or the state of being upset; an overturn; as, the wagon had an upset.
Upsetting (a.) Conceited; assuming; as, an upsetting fellow.
Upshoot (v. i.) To shoot upward.
Upshot (n.) Final issue; conclusion; the sum and substance; the end; the result; the consummation.
Upside (n.) The upper side; the part that is uppermost.
Upsidown (adv.) See Upsodown.
Upsitting (n.) A sitting up of a woman after her confinement, to receive and entertain her friends.
Upskip (n.) An upstart.
Upsnatch (v. t.) To snatch up.
Upsoar (v. i.) To soar or mount up.
Upsodown (adv.) Upside down.
Upspear (v. i.) To grow or shoot up like a spear; as, upspearing grass.
Upspring (v. i.) To spring up.
Upspring (n.) An upstart.
Upspring (n.) A spring or leap into the air.
Upspurner (n.) A spurner or contemner; a despiser; a scoffer.
Upstairs (adv.) Up the stairs; in or toward an upper story.
Upstairs (a.) Being above stairs; as, an upstairs room.
Upstand (v. i.) To stand up; to be erected; to rise.
Upstare (v. i.) To stare or stand upward; hence, to be uplifted or conspicuous.
Upstart (v. i.) To start or spring up suddenly.
Upstart (n.) One who has risen suddenly, as from low life to wealth, power, or honor; a parvenu.
Upstart (n.) The meadow saffron.
Upstart (a.) Suddenly raised to prominence or consequence.
Upstay (v. t.) To sustain; to support.
Upsterte () imp. & p. p. of Upstart.
Upstir (n.) Insurrection; commotion; disturbance.
Upstream (adv.) Toward the higher part of a stream; against the current.
Upstreet (adv.) Toward the higher part of a street; as, to walk upstreet.
Upstroke (n.) An upward stroke, especially the stroke, or line, made by a writing instrument when moving upward, or from the body of the writer, or a line corresponding to the part of a letter thus made.
Upsun (n.) The time during which the sun is up, or above the horizon; the time between sunrise and sunset.
Upswarm (v. i. & i.) To rise, or cause to rise, in a swarm or swarms.
Upsway (v. t.) To sway or swing aloft; as, to upsway a club.
Upswell (v. i.) To swell or rise up.
Upsyturvy (adv.) Upside down; topsy-turvy.
Uptails all () An old game at cards.
Uptails all () Revelers; roysterers.
Uptails all () Revelry; confusion; frolic.
Uptake (v. t.) To take into the hand; to take up; to help.
Uptake (n.) The pipe leading upward from the smoke box of a steam boiler to the chimney, or smokestack; a flue leading upward.
Uptake (n.) Understanding; apprehension.
Uptear (v. t.) To tear up.
Upthrow (v. t.) To throw up.
Upthrow (n.) See Throw, n., 9.
Upthunder (v. i.) To send up a noise like thunder.
Uptie (v. t.) To tie up.
Uptill (prep.) To; against.
Uptown (adv.) To or in the upper part of a town; as, to go uptown.
Uptown (a.) Situated in, or belonging to, the upper part of a town or city; as, a uptown street, shop, etc.; uptown society.
Uptrace (v. t.) To trace up or out.
Uptrain (v. t.) To train up; to educate.
Up-train () A train going in the direction of the metropolis or the main terminus.
Up-train () A train going in the direction conventionally called up.
Upturn (v. t.) To turn up; to direct upward; to throw up; as, to upturn the ground in plowing.
Upupa (n.) A genus of birds which includes the common hoopoe.
Upwaft (v. t.) To waft upward.
Upward (adv.) Alt. of Upwards
Upwards (adv.) In a direction from lower to higher; toward a higher place; in a course toward the source or origin; -- opposed to downward; as, to tend or roll upward.
Upwards (adv.) In the upper parts; above.
Upwards (adv.) Yet more; indefinitely more; above; over.
Upward (a.) Directed toward a higher place; as, with upward eye; with upward course.
Upward (n.) The upper part; the top.
Upwhirl (v. t. & i.) To rise upward in a whirl; to raise upward with a whirling motion.
Upwind (v. t.) To wind up.
Upwreath (v. i.) To rise with a curling motion; to curl upward, as smoke.
Upyat () imp. of Upgive.
Ur (n.) Alt. of Ure
Ure (n.) The urus.
Urachus (n.) A cord or band of fibrous tissue extending from the bladder to the umbilicus.
Uraemia (n.) Accumulation in the blood of the principles of the urine, producing dangerous disease.
Uraemic (a.) Of or pertaining to uraemia; as, uraemic convulsions.
Uraeum (n.) The posterior half of an animal.
Ural (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, the Urals, a mountain range between Europe and Asia.
Ural-Altaic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Urals and the Altai; as the Ural-Altaic, or Turanian, languages.
Urali (n.) See Curare.
Uralian (a.) Alt. of Uralic
Uralic (a.) Of or relating to the Ural Mountains.
Uralite (n.) Amphibole resulting from the alternation of pyroxene by paramorphism. It is not uncommon in massive eruptive rocks.
Uralitization (n.) The change of pyroxene to amphibole by paramorphism.
Uramil (n.) Murexan.
Uranate (n.) A salt of uranic acid.
Urania (n.) One of the nine Muses, daughter of Zeus by Mnemosyne, and patron of astronomy.
Urania (n.) A genus of large, brilliantly colored moths native of the West Indies and South America. Their bright colored and tailed hind wings and their diurnal flight cause them to closely resemble butterflies.
Uranian (a.) Of or pertaining to the planet Uranus; as, the Uranian year.
Uranic (a.) Of or pertaining to the heavens; celestial; astronomical.
Uranic (a.) Pertaining to, resembling, or containing uranium; specifically, designating those compounds in which uranium has a valence relatively higher than in uranous compounds.
Uranin (n.) An alkaline salt of fluorescein, obtained as a brownish red substance, which is used as a dye; -- so called from the peculiar yellowish green fluorescence (resembling that of uranium glass) of its solutions. See Fluorescein.
Uraninite (n.) A mineral consisting chiefly of uranium oxide with some lead, thorium, etc., occurring in black octahedrons, also in masses with a pitchlike luster; pitchblende.
Uraniscoplasty (n.) The process of forming an artificial palate.
Uraniscoraphy (n.) Alt. of Uraniscorrhaphy
Uraniscorrhaphy (n.) Suture of the palate. See Staphyloraphy.
Uranite (n.) A general term for the uranium phosphates, autunite, or lime uranite, and torbernite, or copper uranite.
Uranitic (a.) Of or pertaining to uranium; containing uranium.
Uranium (n.) An element of the chromium group, found in certain rare minerals, as pitchblende, uranite, etc., and reduced as a heavy, hard, nickel-white metal which is quite permanent. Its yellow oxide is used to impart to glass a delicate greenish-yellow tint which is accompanied by a strong fluorescence, and its black oxide is used as a pigment in porcelain painting. Symbol U. Atomic weight 239.
Uran-ocher (n.) Alt. of Uran-ochre
Uran-ochre (n.) A yellow, earthy incrustation, consisting essentially of the oxide of uranium, but more or less impure.
Uranographic (a.) Alt. of Uranographical
Uranographical (a.) Of or pertaining to uranography; as, an uranographic treatise.
Uranographist (n.) One practiced in uranography.
Uranography (n.) A description or plan of the heavens and the heavenly bodies; the construction of celestial maps, globes, etc.; uranology.
Uranolite (n.) A meteorite or aerolite.
Uranology (n.) A discourse or treatise on the heavens and the heavenly bodies; the study of the heavens; uranography.
Uranometria (n.) A uranometry.
Uranometry (n.) A chart or catalogue of fixed stars, especially of stars visible to the naked eye.
Uranoplasty (n.) The plastic operation for closing a fissure in the hard palate.
Uranoscopy (n.) Observation of the heavens or heavenly bodies.
Uranoso- (a.) A combining form (also used adjectively) from uranium; -- used in naming certain complex compounds; as in uranoso-uranic oxide, uranoso-uranic sulphate.
Uranous (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, uranium; designating those compounds in which uranium has a lower valence as contrasted with the uranic compounds.
Uranus (n.) The son or husband of Gaia (Earth), and father of Chronos (Time) and the Titans.
Uranus (n.) One of the primary planets. It is about 1,800,000,000 miles from the sun, about 36,000 miles in diameter, and its period of revolution round the sun is nearly 84 of our years.
Uran-utan () The orang-utang
Uranyl (n.) The radical UO2, conveniently regarded as a residue of many uranium compounds.
Urao (n.) See Trona.
Urare (n.) Alt. of Urari
Urari (n.) See Curare.
Urate (n.) A salt of uric acid; as, sodium urate; ammonium urate.
Uratic () Of or containing urates; as, uratic calculi.
Urban (a.) Of or belonging to a city or town; as, an urban population.
Urban (a.) Belonging to, or suiting, those living in a city; cultivated; polite; urbane; as, urban manners.
Urbane (a.) Courteous in manners; polite; refined; elegant.
Urbaniste (n.) A large and delicious pear or Flemish origin.
Urbanity (n.) The quality or state of being urbane; civility or courtesy of manners; politeness; refinement.
Urbanity (n.) Polite wit; facetiousness.
Urbanize (v. t.) To render urban, or urbane; to refine; to polish.
Urbicolae (n. pl.) An extensive family of butterflies, including those known as skippers (Hesperiadae).
Urbicolous (a.) Of or pertaining to a city; urban.
Urceolar (a.) Urceolate.
Urcelate (a.) Shaped like a pitcher or urn; swelling below, and contrasted at the orifice, as a calyx or corolla.
Urceole (n.) A vessel for water for washing the hands; also, one to hold wine or water.
Urceoli (pl. ) of Urceolus
Urceolus (n.) Any urn-shaped organ of a plant.
Urchin (n.) A hedgehog.
Urchin (n.) A sea urchin. See Sea urchin.
Urchin (n.) A mischievous elf supposed sometimes to take the form a hedgehog.
Urchin (n.) A pert or roguish child; -- now commonly used only of a boy.
Urchin (n.) One of a pair in a series of small card cylinders, arranged around a carding drum; -- so called from its fancied resemblance to the hedgehog.
Urchin (a.) Rough; pricking; piercing.
Urchon (n.) The urchin, or hedgehog.
Urdu (n.) The language more generally called Hindustanee.
Ure (n.) Use; practice; exercise.
Ure (v. t.) To use; to exercise; to inure; to accustom by practice.
Urea (a.) A very soluble crystalline body which is the chief constituent of the urine in mammals and some other animals. It is also present in small quantity in blood, serous fluids, lymph, the liver, etc.
Ureal (a.) Of or pertaining to urea; containing, or consisting of, urea; as, ureal deposits.
Ureameter (n.) An apparatus for the determination of the amount of urea in urine, in which the nitrogen evolved by the action of certain reagents, on a given volume of urine, is collected and measured, and the urea calculated accordingly.
Urechitin (n.) A glucoside extracted from the leaves of a certain plant (Urechitis suberecta) as a bitter white crystalline substance.
Urechitoxin (n.) A poisonous glucoside found accompanying urechitin, and extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance.
Uredo (n.) One of the stages in the life history of certain rusts (Uredinales), regarded at one time as a distinct genus. It is a summer stage preceding the teleutospore, or winter stage. See Uredinales, in the Supplement.
Uredo (n.) Nettle rash. See Urticaria.
Uredospore (n.) The thin-walled summer spore which is produced during the so-called Uredo stage of certain rusts. See (in the Supplement) Uredinales, Heter/cious, etc.
Ureide (n.) Any one of the many complex derivatives of urea; thus, hydantoin, and, in an extended dense, guanidine, caffeine, et., are ureides.
-uret () A suffix with the same meaning as -ide. See -ide.
Ureter (n.) The duct which conveys the urine from the kidney to the bladder or cloaca. There are two ureters, one for each kidney.
Ureteritis (n.) Inflammation of the ureter.
Urethane (n.) A white crystalline substance, NH2.CO.OC2H5, produced by the action of ammonia on ethyl carbonate. It is used somewhat in medicine as a hypnotic. By extension, any one of the series of related substances of which urethane proper is the type.
Urethra (n.) The canal by which the urine is conducted from the bladder and discharged.
Urethral (a.) Of or pertaining to the urethra.
Urethritis (n.) Inflammation of the urethra.
Urethroplasty (n.) An operation for the repair of an injury or a defect in the walls of the urethra.
Urethroscope (n.) An instrument for viewing the interior of the urethra.
Urethroscopy (n.) Examination of the urethra by means of the urethroscope.
Urethrotome (n.) An instrument for cutting a urethral stricture.
Urethrotomy (n.) An incision of the urethra, esp. incision for relief of urethral stricture.
Uretic (a.) Of or pertaining to the urine; diuretic; urinary; as, uretic medicine.
Urged (imp. & p. p.) of Urge
Urging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Urge
Urge (v. t.) To press; to push; to drive; to impel; to force onward.
Urge (v. t.) To press the mind or will of; to ply with motives, arguments, persuasion, or importunity.
Urge (v. t.) To provoke; to exasperate.
Urge (v. t.) To press hard upon; to follow closely
Urge (v. t.) To present in an urgent manner; to press upon attention; to insist upon; as, to urge an argument; to urge the necessity of a case.
Urge (v. t.) To treat with forcible means; to take severe or violent measures with; as, to urge an ore with intense heat.
Urge (v. i.) To press onward or forward.
Urge (v. i.) To be pressing in argument; to insist; to persist.
Urgence (n.) Urgency.
Urgency (n.) The quality or condition of being urgent; insistence; pressure; as, the urgency of a demand or an occasion.
Urgent (a.) Urging; pressing; besetting; plying, with importunity; calling for immediate attention; instantly important.
Urgently (adv.) In an urgent manner.
Urger (n.) One who urges.
Uric (a.) Of or pertaining to urine; obtained from urine; as, uric acid.
Urim (n.) A part or decoration of the breastplate of the high priest among the ancient Jews, by which Jehovah revealed his will on certain occasions. Its nature has been the subject of conflicting conjectures.
Urinal (n.) A vessel for holding urine; especially, a bottle or tube for holding urine for inspection.
Urinal (n.) A place or convenience for urinating purposes.
Urinarium (n.) A reservoir for urine, etc., for manure.
Urinary (a.) Of or pertaining to the urine; as, the urinary bladder; urinary excretions.
Urinary (a.) Resembling, or being of the nature of, urine.
Urinary (n.) A urinarium; also, a urinal.
Urinate (v. i.) To discharge urine; to make water.
Urination (n.) The act or process of voiding urine; micturition.
Urinative (a.) Provoking the flow of urine; uretic; diuretic.
Urinator (n.) One who dives under water in search of something, as for pearls; a diver.
Urine (n.) In mammals, a fluid excretion from the kidneys; in birds and reptiles, a solid or semisolid excretion.
Urine (v. i.) To urinate.
Uriniferous (a.) Bearing or conveying urine; as, uriniferous tubules.
Uriniparous (a.) Producing or preparing urine; as, the uriniparous tubes in the cortical portion of the kidney.
Urinogenital (a.) Pertaining to the urinary and genital organs; genitourinary; urogenital; as, the urinogenital canal.
Urinometer (n.) A small hydrometer for determining the specific gravity of urine.
Urinometry (n.) The estimation of the specific gravity of urine by the urinometer.
Urinose (a.) Alt. of Urinous
Urinous (a.) Of or pertaining to urine, or partaking of its qualities; having the character or odor of urine; similar to urine.
Urite (n.) One of the segments of the abdomen or post-abdomen of arthropods.
Urith (n.) The bindings of a hedge.
Urn (n.) A vessel of various forms, usually a vase furnished with a foot or pedestal, employed for different purposes, as for holding liquids, for ornamental uses, for preserving the ashes of the dead after cremation, and anciently for holding lots to be drawn.
Urn (n.) Fig.: Any place of burial; the grave.
Urn (n.) A measure of capacity for liquids, containing about three gallons and a haft, wine measure. It was haft the amphora, and four times the congius.
Urn (n.) A hollow body shaped like an urn, in which the spores of mosses are contained; a spore case; a theca.
Urn (n.) A tea urn. See under Tea.
Urn (v. t.) To inclose in, or as in, an urn; to inurn.
Urnal (a.) Of or pertaining to an urn; effected by an urn or urns.
Urnfuls (pl. ) of Urnful
Urnful (n.) As much as an urn will hold; enough to fill an urn.
Urn-shaped (a.) Having the shape of an urn; as, the urn-shaped capsules of some mosses.
Uro- () A combining form fr. Gr. o'y^ron, urine.
Uro- () A combining form from Gr. o'yra`, the tail, the caudal extremity.
Urobilin (n.) A yellow pigment identical with hydrobilirubin, abundant in the highly colored urine of fever, and also present in normal urine. See Urochrome.
Urocele (n.) A morbid swelling of the scrotum due to extravasation of urine into it.
Urocerata (n. pl.) A division of boring Hymenoptera, including Tremex and allied genera. See Illust. of Horntail.
Urochord (n.) The central axis or cord in the tail of larval ascidians and of certain adult tunicates.
Urochorda (n. pl.) Same as Tunicata.
Urochordal (a.) Of or pertaining to the Urochorda.
Urochrome (n.) A yellow urinary pigment, considered by Thudichum as the only pigment present in normal urine. It is regarded by Maly as identical with urobilin.
Urochs (n.) See Aurochs.
Urocord (n.) See Urochord.
Urocyst (n.) The urinary bladder.
Urodela (n. pl.) An order of amphibians having the tail well developed and often long. It comprises the salamanders, tritons, and allied animals.
Urodele (n.) One of the Urodela.
Urodelian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Urodela.
Urodelian (n.) One of the Urodela.
Uroerythrin (n.) A reddish urinary pigment, considered as the substance which gives to the urine of rheumatism its characteristic color. It also causes the red color often seen in deposits of urates.
Urogastric (a.) Behind the stomach; -- said of two lobes of the carapace of certain crustaceans.
Urogenital (a.) Same as Urinogenital.
Uroglaucin (n.) A body identical with indigo blue, occasionally found in the urine in degeneration of the kidneys. It is readily formed by oxidation or decomposition of indican.
Urohaematin (n.) Urinary haematin; -- applied to the normal coloring matter of the urine, on the supposition that it is formed either directly or indirectly (through bilirubin) from the haematin of the blood. See Urochrome, and Urobilin.
Urohyal (a.) Of or pertaining to one or more median and posterior elements in the hyoidean arch of fishes.
Urohyal (n.) A urohyal bone or cartilage.
Urology (n.) See Uronology.
Uromere (n.) Any one of the abdominal segments of an arthropod.
Uronology (n.) That part of medicine which treats of urine.
Uropod (n.) Any one of the abdominal appendages of a crustacean, especially one of the posterior ones, which are often larger than the rest, and different in structure, and are used chiefly in locomotion. See Illust. of Crustacea, and Stomapoda.
Uropodal (a.) Of or pertaining to a uropod.
Uropoetic (a.) Producing, or favoring the production of, urine.
Uropoetic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a system of organs which eliminate nitrogenous waste matter from the blood of certain invertebrates.
Uropygial (a.) Of or pertaining to the uropygium, or prominence at the base of the tail feathers, in birds.
Uropygium (n.) The prominence at the posterior extremity of a bird's body, which supports the feathers of the tail; the rump; -- sometimes called pope's nose.
Urosacral (a.) Of or pertaining to both the caudal and sacral parts of the vertebral column; as, the urosacral vertebrae of birds.
Uroscopy (n.) The diagnosis of diseases by inspection of urine.
Urosome (n.) The abdomen, or post-abdomen, of arthropods.
Urostege (n.) One of the plates on the under side of the tail of a serpent.
Urostea (pl. ) of Urosteon
Urosteons (pl. ) of Urosteon
Urosteon (n.) A median ossification back of the lophosteon in the sternum of some birds.
Urosternite (n.) The sternal, or under piece, of any one of the uromeres of insects and other arthropods.
Urostyle (n.) A styliform process forming the posterior extremity of the vertebral column in some fishes and amphibians.
Urox (n.) The aurochs.
Uroxanate (n.) A salt of uroxanic acid.
Uroxanic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C5H8N4O6, which is obtained, as a white crystalline substance, by the slow oxidation of uric acid in alkaline solution.
Uroxanthin (n.) Same as Indican.
Urrhodin (n.) Indigo red, a product of the decomposition, or oxidation, of indican. It is sometimes found in the sediment of pathological urines. It is soluble in ether or alcohol, giving the solution a beautiful red color. Also called indigrubin.
Urry (n.) A sort of blue or black clay lying near a vein of coal.
Ursa (n.) Either one of the Bears. See the Phrases below.
Ursal (n.) The ursine seal. See the Note under 1st Seal.
Ursiform (a.) Having the shape of a bear.
Ursine (a.) Of or pertaining to a bear; resembling a bear.
Urson (n.) The Canada porcupine. See Porcupine.
Ursuk (n.) The bearded seal.
Ursula (n.) A beautiful North American butterfly (Basilarchia, / Limenitis, astyanax). Its wings are nearly black with red and blue spots and blotches. Called also red-spotted purple.
Ursuline (n.) One of an order of nuns founded by St. Angela Merici, at Brescia, in Italy, about the year 1537, and so called from St. Ursula, under whose protection it was placed. The order was introduced into Canada as early as 1639, and into the United States in 1727. The members are devoted entirely to education.
Ursuline (a.) Of or pertaining to St. Ursula, or the order of Ursulines; as, the Ursuline nuns.
Ursus (n.) A genus of Carnivora including the common bears.
Urtica (n.) A genus of plants including the common nettles. See Nettle, n.
Urticaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order (Urticaceae) of plants, of which the nettle is the type. The order includes also the hop, the elm, the mulberry, the fig, and many other plants.
Urtical (a.) Resembling nettles; -- said of several natural orders allied to urticaceous plants.
Urticaria (n.) The nettle rash, a disease characterized by a transient eruption of red pimples and of wheals, accompanied with a burning or stinging sensation and with itching; uredo.
Urticated (imp. & p. p.) of Urticate
Urticating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Urticate
Urticate (v. t. & i.) To sting with, or as with, nettles; to irritate; to annoy.
Urtication (n.) The act or process of whipping or stinging with nettles; -- sometimes used in the treatment of paralysis.
Urubu (n.) The black vulture (Catharista atrata). It ranges from the Southern United States to South America. See Vulture.
Urus (n.) A very large, powerful, and savage extinct bovine animal (Bos urus / primigenius) anciently abundant in Europe. It appears to have still existed in the time of Julius Caesar. It had very large horns, and was hardly capable of domestication. Called also, ur, ure, and tur.
Urva (n.) The crab-eating ichneumon (Herpestes urva), native of India. The fur is black, annulated with white at the tip of each hair, and a white streak extends from the mouth to the shoulder.
Us (pron.) The persons speaking, regarded as an object; ourselves; -- the objective case of we. See We.
Usable (a.) Capable of being used.
Usage (n.) The act of using; mode of using or treating; treatment; conduct with respect to a person or a thing; as, good usage; ill usage; hard usage.
Usage (n.) Manners; conduct; behavior.
Usage (n.) Long-continued practice; customary mode of procedure; custom; habitual use; method.
Usage (n.) Customary use or employment, as of a word or phrase in a particular sense or signification.
Usage (n.) Experience.
Usager (n.) One who has the use of anything in trust for another.
Usance (v. t.) Use; usage; employment.
Usance (v. t.) Custom; practice; usage.
Usance (v. t.) Interest paid for money; usury.
Usance (v. t.) The time, fixed variously by the usage between different countries, when a bill of exchange is payable; as, a bill drawn on London at one usance, or at double usance.
Usant (a.) Using; accustomed.
Usbegs (n. pl.) Alt. of Usbeks
Usbeks (n. pl.) A Turkish tribe which about the close of the 15th century conquered, and settled in, that part of Asia now called Turkestan.
Use (v. t.) The act of employing anything, or of applying it to one's service; the state of being so employed or applied; application; employment; conversion to some purpose; as, the use of a pen in writing; his machines are in general use.
Use (v. t.) Occasion or need to employ; necessity; as, to have no further use for a book.
Use (v. t.) Yielding of service; advantage derived; capability of being used; usefulness; utility.
Use (v. t.) Continued or repeated practice; customary employment; usage; custom; manner; habit.
Use (v. t.) Common occurrence; ordinary experience.
Use (v. t.) The special form of ritual adopted for use in any diocese; as, the Sarum, or Canterbury, use; the Hereford use; the York use; the Roman use; etc.
Use (v. t.) The premium paid for the possession and employment of borrowed money; interest; usury.
Use (v. t.) The benefit or profit of lands and tenements. Use imports a trust and confidence reposed in a man for the holding of lands. He to whose use or benefit the trust is intended shall enjoy the profits. An estate is granted and limited to A for the use of B.
Use (v. t.) A stab of iron welded to the side of a forging, as a shaft, near the end, and afterward drawn down, by hammering, so as to lengthen the forging.
Used (imp. & p. p.) of Use
Using (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Use
Use (v. t.) To make use of; to convert to one's service; to avail one's self of; to employ; to put a purpose; as, to use a plow; to use a chair; to use time; to use flour for food; to use water for irrigation.
Use (v. t.) To behave toward; to act with regard to; to treat; as, to use a beast cruelly.
Use (v. t.) To practice customarily; to make a practice of; as, to use diligence in business.
Use (v. t.) To accustom; to habituate; to render familiar by practice; to inure; -- employed chiefly in the passive participle; as, men used to cold and hunger; soldiers used to hardships and danger.
Use (v. i.) To be wont or accustomed; to be in the habit or practice; as, he used to ride daily; -- now disused in the present tense, perhaps because of the similarity in sound, between "use to," and "used to."
Use (v. i.) To be accustomed to go; to frequent; to inhabit; to dwell; -- sometimes followed by of.
Useful (a.) Full of use, advantage, or profit; producing, or having power to produce, good; serviceable for any end or object; helpful toward advancing any purpose; beneficial; profitable; advantageous; as, vessels and instruments useful in a family; books useful for improvement; useful knowledge; useful arts.
Usefully (adv.) In a useful manner.
Usefulness (n.) The quality or state of being useful; utility; serviceableness; advantage.
Useless (a.) Having, or being of, no use; unserviceable; producing no good end; answering no valuable purpose; not advancing the end proposed; unprofitable; ineffectual; as, a useless garment; useless pity.
User (n.) One who uses.
User (n.) Enjoyment of property; use.
Usher (n.) An officer or servant who has the care of the door of a court, hall, chamber, or the like; hence, an officer whose business it is to introduce strangers, or to walk before a person of rank. Also, one who escorts persons to seats in a church, theater, etc.
Usher (n.) An under teacher, or assistant master, in a school.
Ushered (imp. & p. p.) of Usher
Ushering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Usher
Usher (v. t.) To introduce or escort, as an usher, forerunner, or harbinger; to forerun; -- sometimes followed by in or forth; as, to usher in a stranger; to usher forth the guests; to usher a visitor into the room.
Usherance (n.) The act of ushering, or the state of being ushered in.
Usherdom (n.) The office or position of an usher; ushership; also, ushers, collectively.
Usherless (a.) Destitute of an usher.
Ushership (n.) The office of an usher; usherdom.
Usitative (a.) Denoting usual or customary action.
Usnea (n.) A genus of lichens, most of the species of which have long, gray, pendulous, and finely branched fronds. Usnea barbata is the common bearded lichen which grows on branches of trees in northern forests.
Usnic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a complex acid obtained, as a yellow crystalline substance, from certain genera of lichens (Usnea, Parmelia, etc.).
Usquebaugh (a.) A compound distilled spirit made in Ireland and Scotland; whisky.
Usquebaugh (a.) A liquor compounded of brandy, or other strong spirit, raisins, cinnamon and other spices.
Usself (n. pl.) Ourselves.
Ustion (n.) The act of burning, or the state of being burned.
Ustorious (a.) Having the quality of burning.
Ustulate (a.) Blackened as if burned.
Ustulation (n.) The act of burning or searing.
Ustulation (n.) The operation of expelling one substance from another by heat, as sulphur or arsenic from ores, in a muffle.
Ustulation (n.) The roasting or drying of moist substances so as prepare them for pulverizing.
Ustulation (n.) The burning of wine.
Ustulation (n.) Lascivious passion; concupiscence.
Usual (n.) Such as is in common use; such as occurs in ordinary practice, or in the ordinary course of events; customary; ordinary; habitual; common.
Usucaption (n.) The acquisition of the title or right to property by the uninterrupted possession of it for a certain term prescribed by law; -- the same as prescription in common law.
Usufruct (n.) The right of using and enjoying the profits of an estate or other thing belonging to another, without impairing the substance.
Usufructuary (n.) A person who has the use of property and reaps the profits of it.
Usufructuary (a.) Of or pertaining to a usufruct; having the nature of a usufruct.
Usurarious (a.) Alt. of Usurary
Usurary (a.) Usurious.
Usured (imp. & p. p.) of Usure
Usuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Usure
Usure (v. i.) To practice usury; to charge unlawful interest.
Usure (n.) Usury.
Usurer (n.) One who lends money and takes interest for it; a money lender.
Usurer (n.) One who lends money at a rate of interest beyond that established by law; one who exacts an exorbitant rate of interest for the use of money.
Usurious (a.) Practicing usury; taking illegal or exorbitant interest for the use of money; as, a usurious person.
Usurious (a.) Partaking of usury; containing or involving usury; as, a usurious contract.
Usurped (imp. & p. p.) of Usurp
Usurping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Usurp
Usurp (v. t.) To seize, and hold in possession, by force, or without right; as, to usurp a throne; to usurp the prerogatives of the crown; to usurp power; to usurp the right of a patron is to oust or dispossess him.
Usurp (v. i.) To commit forcible seizure of place, power, functions, or the like, without right; to commit unjust encroachments; to be, or act as, a usurper.
Usurpant (a.) Usurping; encroaching.
Usurpation (n.) The act of usurping, or of seizing and enjoying; an authorized, arbitrary assumption and exercise of power, especially an infringing on the rights of others; specifically, the illegal seizure of sovereign power; -- commonly used with of, also used with on or upon; as, the usurpation of a throne; the usurpation of the supreme power.
Usurpation (n.) Use; usage; custom.
Usurpatory (a.) Marked by usurpation; usurping.
Usurpature (n.) Usurpation.
Usurper (n.) One who usurps; especially, one who seizes illegally on sovereign power; as, the usurper of a throne, of power, or of the rights of a patron.
Usurpingly (adv.) In a usurping manner.
Usury (v. t.) A premium or increase paid, or stipulated to be paid, for a loan, as of money; interest.
Usury (v. t.) The practice of taking interest.
Usury (v. t.) Interest in excess of a legal rate charged to a borrower for the use of money.
Ut (n.) The first note in Guido's musical scale, now usually superseded by do. See Solmization.
Utas (n.) The eighth day after any term or feast; the octave; as, the utas of St. Michael.
Utas (n.) Hence, festivity; merriment.
Utensil (v. t.) That which is used; an instrument; an implement; especially, an instrument or vessel used in a kitchen, or in domestic and farming business.
Uterine (a.) Of or instrument to the uterus, or womb.
Uterine (a.) Born of the same mother, but by a different father.
Uterogestation (n.) Gestation in the womb from conception to birth; pregnancy.
Uterovaginal (n.) Pertaining to both the uterus and the vagina.
Uterus (n.) The organ of a female mammal in which the young are developed previous to birth; the womb.
Uterus (n.) A receptacle, or pouch, connected with the oviducts of many invertebrates in which the eggs are retained until they hatch or until the embryos develop more or less. See Illust. of Hermaphrodite in Append.
Utes (n. pl.) An extensive tribe of North American Indians of the Shoshone stock, inhabiting Colorado, Utah, New Mexico, Arizona, and adjacent regions. They are subdivided into several subordinate tribes, some of which are among the most degraded of North American Indians.
Utia (n.) Any species of large West Indian rodents of the genus Capromys, or Utia. In general appearance and habits they resemble rats, but they are as large as rabbits.
Utica (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a subdivision of the Trenton Period of the Lower Silurian, characterized in the State of New York by beds of shale.
Utile (v. t.) Profitable; useful.
Utilitarian (a.) Of or pertaining to utility; consisting in utility; /iming at utility as distinguished from beauty, ornament, etc.; sometimes, reproachfully, evincing, or characterized by, a regard for utility of a lower kind, or marked by a sordid spirit; as, utilitarian narrowness; a utilitarian indifference to art.
Utilitarian (a.) Of or pertaining to utilitarianism; supporting utilitarianism; as, the utilitarian view of morality; the Utilitarian Society.
Utilitarian (n.) One who holds the doctrine of utilitarianism.
Utilitarianism (n.) The doctrine that the greatest happiness of the greatest number should be the end and aim of all social and political institutions.
Utilitarianism (n.) The doctrine that virtue is founded in utility, or that virtue is defined and enforced by its tendency to promote the highest happiness of the universe.
Utilitarianism (n.) The doctrine that utility is the sole standard of morality, so that the rectitude of an action is determined by its usefulness.
Utility (n.) The quality or state of being useful; usefulness; production of good; profitableness to some valuable end; as, the utility of manure upon land; the utility of the sciences; the utility of medicines.
Utility (n.) Adaptation to satisfy the desires or wants; intrinsic value. See Note under Value, 2.
Utility (n.) Happiness; the greatest good, or happiness, of the greatest number, -- the foundation of utilitarianism.
Utilizable (a.) Capable of being utilized; as, the utilizable products of the gas works.
Utilization (n.) The act of utilizing, or the state of being utilized.
Utilized (imp. & p. p.) of Utilize
Utilizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Utilize
Utilize (v. t.) To make useful; to turn to profitable account or use; to make use of; as, to utilize the whole power of a machine; to utilize one's opportunities.
Uti possidetis () The basis or principle of a treaty which leaves belligerents mutually in possession of what they have acquired by their arms during the war.
Uti possidetis () A species of interdict granted to one who was in possession of an immovable thing, in order that he might be declared the legal possessor.
Utis (n.) See Utas.
Utlary (n.) Outlawry.
Utmost (a.) Situated at the farthest point or extremity; farthest out; most distant; extreme; as, the utmost limits of the land; the utmost extent of human knowledge.
Utmost (a.) Being in the greatest or highest degree, quantity, number, or the like; greatest; as, the utmost assiduity; the utmost harmony; the utmost misery or happiness.
Utmost (n.) The most that can be; the farthest limit; the greatest power, degree, or effort; as, he has done his utmost; try your utmost.
Utopia (n.) An imaginary island, represented by Sir Thomas More, in a work called Utopia, as enjoying the greatest perfection in politics, laws, and the like. See Utopia, in the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction.
Utopia (n.) Hence, any place or state of ideal perfection.
Utopian (a.) Of or pertaining to Utopia; resembling Utopia; hence, ideal; chimerical; fanciful; founded upon, or involving, imaginary perfections; as, Utopian projects; Utopian happiness.
Utopian (n.) An inhabitant of Utopia; hence, one who believes in the perfectibility of human society; a visionary; an idealist; an optimist.
Utopianism (n.) The ideas, views, aims, etc., of a Utopian; impracticable schemes of human perfection; optimism.
Utopianist (n.) An Utopian; an optimist.
Utopical (a.) Utopian; ideal.
Utopist (n.) A Utopian.
Utraquist (n.) One who receives the eucharist in both kinds; esp., one of a body of Hussites who in the 15th century fought for the right to do this. Called also Calixtines.
Utricle (n.) A little sac or vesicle, as the air cell of fucus, or seaweed.
Utricle (n.) A microscopic cell in the structure of an egg, animal, or plant.
Utricle (n.) A small, thin-walled, one-seeded fruit, as of goosefoot.
Utricle (n.) A utriculus.
Utricular (a.) Of or pertaining to a utricle, or utriculus; containing, or furnished with, a utricle or utricles; utriculate; as, a utricular plant.
Utricular (a.) Resembling a utricle or bag, whether large or minute; -- said especially with reference to the condition of certain substances, as sulphur, selenium, etc., when condensed from the vaporous state and deposited upon cold bodies, in which case they assume the form of small globules filled with liquid.
Utricularia (n.) A genus of aquatic flowering plants, in which the submersed leaves bear many little utricles, or ascidia. See Ascidium,
Utriculate (a.) Resembling a bladder; swollen like a bladder; inflated; utricular.
Utriculoid (a.) Resembling a bladder; utricular; utriculate.
Utriculus (n.) A little sac, or bag; a utricle; especially, a part of the membranous labyrinth of the ear. See the Note under Ear.
Utro () - (/). A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the uterus; as in utro-ovarian.
Utter (a.) Outer.
Utter (a.) Situated on the outside, or extreme limit; remote from the center; outer.
Utter (a.) Complete; perfect; total; entire; absolute; as, utter ruin; utter darkness.
Utter (a.) Peremptory; unconditional; unqualified; final; as, an utter refusal or denial.
Uttered (imp. & p. p.) of Utter
Uttering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Utter
Utter (a.) To put forth or out; to reach out.
Utter (a.) To dispose of in trade; to sell or vend.
Utter (a.) hence, to put in circulation, as money; to put off, as currency; to cause to pass in trade; -- often used, specifically, of the issue of counterfeit notes or coins, forged or fraudulent documents, and the like; as, to utter coin or bank notes.
Utter (a.) To give public expression to; to disclose; to publish; to speak; to pronounce.
Utterable (a.) Capable of being uttered.
Utterance (n.) The act of uttering.
Utterance (n.) Sale by offering to the public.
Utterance (n.) Putting in circulation; as, the utterance of false coin, or of forged notes.
Utterance (n.) Vocal expression; articulation; speech.
Utterance (n.) Power or style of speaking; as, a good utterance.
Utterance (n.) The last extremity; the end; death; outrance.
Utterer (n.) One who utters.
Utterest (superl.) Uttermost.
Utterless (a.) Incapable of being uttered.
Utterly (adv.) In an utter manner; to the full extent; fully; totally; as, utterly ruined; it is utterly vain.
Uttermore (a.) Further; outer; utter.
Uttermost (a.) Extreme; utmost; being; in the farthest, greatest, or highest degree; as, the uttermost extent or end.
Uttermost (n.) The utmost; the highest or greatest degree; the farthest extent.
Utterness (n.) The quality or state of being utter, or extreme; extremity; utmost; uttermost.
Uva (n.) A small pulpy or juicy fruit containing several seeds and having a thin skin, as a grape.
Uvate (n.) A conserve made of grapes.
Uva-ursi (n.) The bearberry.
Uvea (n.) The posterior pigmented layer of the iris; -- sometimes applied to the whole iris together with the choroid coat.
Uveous (a.) Resembling a grape.
Uvic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, grapes; specifically, designating an organic acid, C7H8O3 (also called pyrotritartaric acid), obtained as a white crystalline substance by the decomposition of tartaric and pyrotartaric acids.
Uvitic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, CH3C6H3(CO2H)2, obtained as a white crystalline substance by the partial oxidation of mesitylene; -- called also mesitic acid.
Uvitonic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid which is obtained as a white crystalline substance by the action of ammonia on pyrotartaric acid.
Uvrou (n.) See Euphroe.
Uvula (n.) The pendent fleshy lobe in the middle of the posterior border of the soft palate.
Uvular (a.) Of or pertaining to a uvula.
Uvulatome (n.) An instrument for removing the uvula.
Uvulatomy (n.) The operation of removing the uvula.
Uwarowite (n.) Ouvarovite.
Uxorial (a.) Dotingly fond of, or servilely submissive to, a wife; uxorious; also, becoming a wife; pertaining to a wife.
Uxoricidal (a.) Of or pertaining to uxoricide; tending to uxoricide.
Uxoricide (n.) The murder of a wife by her husband.
Uxoricide (n.) One who murders his wife.
Uxorious (a.) Excessively fond of, or submissive to, a wife; being a dependent husband.
Uzema (n.) A Burman measure of twelve miles.
V () V, the twenty-second letter of the English alphabet, is a vocal consonant. V and U are only varieties of the same character, U being the cursive form, while V is better adapted for engraving, as in stone. The two letters were formerly used indiscriminately, and till a comparatively recent date words containing them were often classed together in dictionaries and other books of reference (see U). The letter V is from the Latin alphabet, where it was used both as a consonant (about like English w) and as a vowel. The Latin derives it from it from a form (V) of the Greek vowel / (see Y), this Greek letter being either from the same Semitic letter as the digamma F (see F), or else added by the Greeks to the alphabet which they took from the Semitic. Etymologically v is most nearly related to u, w, f, b, p; as in vine, wine; avoirdupois, habit, have; safe, save; trover, troubadour, trope. See U, F, etc.
V () As a numeral, V stands for five, in English and Latin.
Vaagmer (n.) The dealfish.
Vacancies (pl. ) of Vacancy
Vacancy (n.) The quality or state of being vacant; emptiness; hence, freedom from employment; intermission; leisure; idleness; listlessness.
Vacancy (n.) That which is vacant.
Vacancy (n.) Empty space; vacuity; vacuum.
Vacancy (n.) An open or unoccupied space between bodies or things; an interruption of continuity; chasm; gap; as, a vacancy between buildings; a vacancy between sentences or thoughts.
Vacancy (n.) Unemployed time; interval of leisure; time of intermission; vacation.
Vacancy (n.) A place or post unfilled; an unoccupied office; as, a vacancy in the senate, in a school, etc.
Vacant (a.) Deprived of contents; not filled; empty; as, a vacant room.
Vacant (a.) Unengaged with business or care; unemployed; unoccupied; disengaged; free; as, vacant hours.
Vacant (a.) Not filled or occupied by an incumbent, possessor, or officer; as, a vacant throne; a vacant parish.
Vacant (a.) Empty of thought; thoughtless; not occupied with study or reflection; as, a vacant mind.
Vacant (a.) Abandoned; having no heir, possessor, claimant, or occupier; as, a vacant estate.
Vacantly (adv.) In a vacant manner; inanely.
Vacated (imp. & p. p.) of Vacate
Vacating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vacate
Vacate (v. t.) To make vacant; to leave empty; to cease from filling or occupying; as, it was resolved by Parliament that James had vacated the throne of England; the tenant vacated the house.
Vacate (v. t.) To annul; to make void; to deprive of force; to make of no authority or validity; as, to vacate a commission or a charter; to vacate proceedings in a cause.
Vacate (v. t.) To defeat; to put an end to.
Vacation (n.) The act of vacating; a making void or of no force; as, the vacation of an office or a charter.
Vacation (n.) Intermission of a stated employment, procedure, or office; a period of intermission; rest; leisure.
Vacation (n.) Intermission of judicial proceedings; the space of time between the end of one term and the beginning of the next; nonterm; recess.
Vacation (n.) The intermission of the regular studies and exercises of an educational institution between terms; holidays; as, the spring vacation.
Vacation (n.) The time when an office is vacant; esp. (Eccl.), the time when a see, or other spiritual dignity, is vacant.
Vaccary (n.) A cow house, dairy house, or cow pasture.
Vaccina (n.) Vaccinia.
Vaccinal (a.) Of or pertaining to vaccinia or vaccination.
Vaccinated (imp. & p. p.) of Vaccinate
Vaccinating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vaccinate
Vaccinate (v. t.) To inoculate with the cowpox by means of a virus, called vaccine, taken either directly or indirectly from cows.
Vaccination (n.) The act, art, or practice of vaccinating, or inoculating with the cowpox, in order to prevent or mitigate an attack of smallpox. Cf. Inoculation.
Vaccinator (n.) One who, or that which, vaccinates.
Vaccine (a.) Of or pertaining to cows; pertaining to, derived from, or caused by, vaccinia; as, vaccine virus; the vaccine disease.
Vaccine (n.) The virus of vaccinia used in vaccination.
Vaccine (n.) any preparation used to render an organism immune to some disease, by inducing or increasing the natural immunity mechanisms. Prior to 1995, such preparations usually contained killed organisms of the type for which immunity was desired, and sometimes used live organisms having attenuated virulence. since that date, preparations containing only specific antigenic portions of the pathogenic organism are also used, some of which are prepared by genetic engineering techniques.
Vaccinia (n.) Cowpox; vaccina. See Cowpox.
Vaccinist (n.) A vaccinator.
Vaccinium (n.) A genus of ericaceous shrubs including the various kinds of blueberries and the true cranberries.
Vacher (n.) A keeper of stock or cattle; a herdsman.
Vachery (n.) An inclosure for cows.
Vachery (n.) A dairy.
Vacillancy (n.) The quality or state of being vacillant, or wavering.
Vacillant (a.) Vacillating; wavering; fluctuating; irresolute.
Vacillated (imp. & p. p.) of Vacillate
Vacillating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vacillate
Vacillate (v. t.) To move one way and the other; to reel or stagger; to waver.
Vacillate (v. t.) To fluctuate in mind or opinion; to be unsteady or inconstant; to waver.
Vacillating (a.) Inclined to fluctuate; wavering.
Vacillation (n.) The act of vacillating; a moving one way and the other; a wavering.
Vacillatory (a.) Inclined to vacillate; wavering; irresolute.
Vacuate (v. t.) To make void, or empty.
Vacuation (n.) The act of emptying; evacuation.
Vacuist (n.) One who holds the doctrine that the space between the bodies of the universe, or the molecules and atoms of matter., is a vacuum; -- opposed to plenist.
Vacuity (n.) The quality or state of being vacuous, or not filled; emptiness; vacancy; as, vacuity of mind; vacuity of countenance.
Vacuity (n.) Space unfilled or unoccupied, or occupied with an invisible fluid only; emptiness; void; vacuum.
Vacuity (n.) Want of reality; inanity; nihility.
Vacuna (n.) The goddess of rural leisure, to whom the husbandmen sacrificed at the close of the harvest. She was especially honored by the Sabines.
Vacuolated (a.) Full of vacuoles, or small air cavities; as, vacuolated cells.
Vacuolation (n.) Formation into, or multiplication of, vacuoles.
Vacuole (n.) A small air cell, or globular space, in the interior of organic cells, either containing air, or a pellucid watery liquid, or some special chemical secretions of the cell protoplasm.
Vacuous (a.) Empty; unfilled; void; vacant.
Vacuousness (n.) The quality or state of being vacuous; emptiness; vacuity.
Vacuums (pl. ) of Vacuum
Vacua (pl. ) of Vacuum
Vacuum (n.) A space entirely devoid of matter (called also, by way of distinction, absolute vacuum); hence, in a more general sense, a space, as the interior of a closed vessel, which has been exhausted to a high or the highest degree by an air pump or other artificial means; as, water boils at a reduced temperature in a vacuum.
Vacuum (n.) The condition of rarefaction, or reduction of pressure below that of the atmosphere, in a vessel, as the condenser of a steam engine, which is nearly exhausted of air or steam, etc.; as, a vacuum of 26 inches of mercury, or 13 pounds per square inch.
Vadantes (n. pl.) An extensive artificial group of birds including the wading, swimming, and cursorial birds.
Vade (v. i.) To fade; hence, to vanish.
Vade mecum () A book or other thing that a person carries with him as a constant companion; a manual; a handbook.
Vadimony (n.) A bond or pledge for appearance before a judge on a certain day.
Vadium (n.) Pledge; security; bail. See Mortgage.
Vae (n.) See Voe.
Vafrous (a.) Crafty; cunning; sly; as, vafrous tricks.
Vagabond (a.) Moving from place to place without a settled habitation; wandering.
Vagabond (a.) Floating about without any certain direction; driven to and fro.
Vagabond (a.) Being a vagabond; strolling and idle or vicious.
Vagabond (n.) One who wanders from place to place, having no fixed dwelling, or not abiding in it, and usually without the means of honest livelihood; a vagrant; a tramp; hence, a worthless person; a rascal.
Vagabond (v. i.) To play the vagabond; to wander like a vagabond; to stroll.
Vagabondage (n.) The condition of a vagabond; a state or habit of wandering about in idleness; vagrancy.
Vagabondism (n.) Vagabondage.
Vagabondize (v. i.) To play the vagabond; to wander about in idleness.
Vagabondry (n.) Vagabondage.
Vagal (a.) Of or pertaining to the vagus, or pneumogastric nerves; pneumogastric.
Vagancy (n.) A wandering; vagrancy.
Vagantes (p. pl.) A tribe of spiders, comprising some of those which take their prey in a web, but which also frequently run with agility, and chase and seize their prey.
Vagarious (a.) Given to, or characterized by, vagaries; capricious; whimsical; crochety.
Vagaries (pl. ) of Vagary
Vagary (n.) A wandering or strolling.
Vagary (n.) Hence, a wandering of the thoughts; a wild or fanciful freak; a whim; a whimsical purpose.
Vagient (a.) Crying like a child.
Vaginae (pl. ) of Vagina
Vagina (n.) A sheath; a theca; as, the vagina of the portal vein.
Vagina (n.) Specifically, the canal which leads from the uterus to the external orifice if the genital canal, or to the cloaca.
Vagina (n.) The terminal part of the oviduct in insects and various other invertebrates. See Illust., of Spermatheca.
Vagina (n.) The basal expansion of certain leaves, which inwraps the stem; a sheath.
Vagina (n.) The shaft of a terminus, from which the bust of figure seems to issue or arise.
Vaginal (a.) Of or pertaining to a vagina; resembling a vagina, or sheath; thecal; as, a vaginal synovial membrane; the vaginal process of the temporal bone.
Vaginal (a.) Of or pertaining to the vagina of the genital canal; as, the vaginal artery.
Vaginant (a.) Serving to in invest, or sheathe; sheathing.
Vaginate (a.) Alt. of Vaginated
Vaginated (a.) Invested with, or as if with, a sheath; as, a vaginate stem, or one invested by the tubular base of a leaf.
Vaginati (n. pl.) A tribe of birds comprising the sheathbills.
Vaginervose (a.) Having the nerves, or veins, placed in apparent disorder.
Vaginicola (n.) A genus of Infusoria which form minute vaselike or tubular cases in which they dwell.
Vaginismus (n.) A painful spasmodic contraction of the vagina, often rendering copulation impossible.
Vaginitis (n.) Inflammation of the vagina, or the genital canal, usually of its mucous living membrane.
Vaginopennous (a.) Having elytra; sheath-winged.
Vaginula (n.) A little sheath, as that about the base of the pedicel of most mosses.
Vaginula (n.) One of the tubular florets in composite flowers.
Vaginule (n.) A vaginula.
Vagissate (v. i.) To caper or frolic.
Vagous (a.) Wandering; unsettled.
Vagrancy (n.) The quality or state of being a vagrant; a wandering without a settled home; an unsettled condition; vagabondism.
Vagrant (a.) Moving without certain direction; wandering; erratic; unsettled.
Vagrant (a.) Wandering from place to place without any settled habitation; as, a vagrant beggar.
Vagrant (n.) One who strolls from place to place; one who has no settled habitation; an idle wanderer; a sturdy beggar; an incorrigible rogue; a vagabond.
Vagrantly (adv.) In a vagrant manner.
Vagrantness (n.) State of being vagrant; vagrancy.
Vague (v. i.) Wandering; vagrant; vagabond.
Vague (v. i.) Unsettled; unfixed; undetermined; indefinite; ambiguous; as, a vague idea; a vague proposition.
Vague (v. i.) Proceeding from no known authority; unauthenticated; uncertain; flying; as, a vague report.
Vague (n.) An indefinite expanse.
Vague (v. i.) To wander; to roam; to stray.
Vague (n.) A wandering; a vagary.
Vaguely (adv.) In a vague manner.
Vagueness (n.) The quality or state of being vague.
Vagus (a.) Wandering; -- applied especially to the pneumogastric nerve.
Vagus (n.) The vagus, ore pneumogastric, nerve.
Vail (n. & v. t.) Same as Veil.
Vail (n.) Avails; profit; return; proceeds.
Vail (n.) An unexpected gain or acquisition; a casual advantage or benefit; a windfall.
Vail (n.) Money given to servants by visitors; a gratuity; -- usually in the plural.
Vail (v. t.) To let fail; to allow or cause to sink.
Vail (v. t.) To lower, or take off, in token of inferiority, reverence, submission, or the like.
Vail (v. i.) To yield or recede; to give place; to show respect by yielding, uncovering, or the like.
Vail (n.) Submission; decline; descent.
Vailer (n.) One who vails.
Vaimure (n.) An outer, or exterior. wall. See Vauntmure.
Vain (superl.) Having no real substance, value, or importance; empty; void; worthless; unsatisfying.
Vain (superl.) Destitute of forge or efficacy; effecting no purpose; fruitless; ineffectual; as, vain toil; a vain attempt.
Vain (superl.) Proud of petty things, or of trifling attainments; having a high opinion of one's own accomplishments with slight reason; conceited; puffed up; inflated.
Vain (superl.) Showy; ostentatious.
Vain (n.) Vanity; emptiness; -- now used only in the phrase in vain.
Vainglorious (a.) Feeling or indicating vainglory; elated by vanity; boastful.
Vainglory (n.) Excessive vanity excited by one's own performances; empty pride; undue elation of mind; vain show; boastfulness.
Vainly (adv.) In a vain manner; in vain.
Vainness (n.) The quality or state of being vain.
Vair (n.) The skin of the squirrel, much used in the fourteenth century as fur for garments, and frequently mentioned by writers of that period in describing the costly dresses of kings, nobles, and prelates. It is represented in heraldry by a series of small shields placed close together, and alternately white and blue.
Vairy (n.) Charged with vair; variegated with shield-shaped figures. See Vair.
Vaishnava (n.) A worshiper of the god Vishnu in any of his incarnations.
Vaishnavism (n.) The worship of Vishnu.
Vaisya (n.) The third of the four great original castes among the Hindus, now either extinct or partially represented by the mercantile class of Banyas. See the Note under Caste, 1.
Vaivode (n.) See Waywode.
Vakeel (n.) A native attorney or agent; also, an ambassador.
Valance (n.) Hanging drapery for a bed, couch, window, or the like, especially that which hangs around a bedstead, from the bed to the floor.
Valance (n.) The drooping edging of the lid of a trunk. which covers the joint when the lid is closed.
Valanced (imp. & p. p.) of Valance
Valancing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Valance
Valance (v. t.) To furnish with a valance; to decorate with hangings or drapery.
Vale (n.) A tract of low ground, or of land between hills; a valley.
Vale (n.) See 2d Vail, 3.
Valediction (n.) A farewell; a bidding farewell.
Valedictorian (n.) One who pronounces a valedictory address; especially, in American colleges, the student who pronounces the valedictory of the graduating class at the annual commencement, usually the student who ranks first in scholarship.
Valedictory (a.) Bidding farewell; suitable or designed for an occasion of leave-taking; as, a valedictory oration.
Valedictories (pl. ) of Valedictory
Valedictory (n.) A valedictory oration or address spoken at commencement in American colleges or seminaries by one of the graduating class, usually by the leading scholar.
Valence (n.) The degree of combining power of an atom (or radical) as shown by the number of atoms of hydrogen (or of other monads, as chlorine, sodium, etc.) with which it will combine, or for which it can be substituted, or with which it can be compared; thus, an atom of hydrogen is a monad, and has a valence of one; the atoms of oxygen, nitrogen, and carbon are respectively dyads, triads, and tetrads, and have a valence respectively of two, three, and four.
Valencia (n.) A kind of woven fabric for waistcoats, having the weft of wool and the warp of silk or cotton.
Valenciennes lace () A rich kind of lace made at Valenciennes, in France. Each piece is made throughout, ground and pattern, by the same person and with the same thread, the pattern being worked in the net.
Valencies (pl. ) of Valency
Valency (n.) See Valence.
Valency (n.) A unit of combining power; a so-called bond of affinity.
Valentia (n.) See Valencia.
Valentine (n.) A sweetheart chosen on St. Valentine's Day.
Valentine (n.) A letter containing professions of love, or a missive of a sentimental, comic, or burlesque character, sent on St. Valentine's Day.
Valentinian (n.) One of a school of Judaizing Gnostics in the second century; -- so called from Valentinus, the founder.
Valeramide (n.) The acid amide derivative of valeric acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance.
Valerate (n.) A salt of valeric acid.
Valerian (n.) Any plant of the genus Valeriana. The root of the officinal valerian (V. officinalis) has a strong smell, and is much used in medicine as an antispasmodic.
Valerianaceous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, plants of a natural order (Valerianaccae) of which the valerian is the type. The order includes also the corn salads and the oriental spikenard.
Valerianate (n.) A valerate.
Valerianic (a.) Performance to, or obtained from, valerian root; specifically, designating an acid which is usually called valeric acid.
Valeric (a.) Valerianic; specifically, designating any one of three metameric acids, of which the typical one (called also inactive valeric acid), C4H9CO2H, is obtained from valerian root and other sources, as a corrosive, mobile, oily liquid, having a strong acid taste, and an odor of old cheese.
Valeridine (n.) A base, C10H19N, produced by heating valeric aldehyde with ammonia. It is probably related to the conine alkaloids.
Valerin (n.) A salt of valeric acid with glycerin, occurring in butter, dolphin oil., and forming an forming an oily liquid with a slightly unpleasant odor.
Valeritrine (n.) A base, C15H27N, produced together with valeridine, which it resembles.
Valero- () A combining form (also used adjectively) indicating derivation from, or relation to, valerian or some of its products, as valeric acid; as in valerolactone, a colorless oily liquid produced as the anhydride of an hydroxy valeric acid.
Valerone (n.) A ketone of valeric acid obtained as an oily liquid.
Valeryl (n.) The hypothetical radical C5H9O, regarded as the essential nucleus of certain valeric acid derivatives.
Valerylene (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon, C5H8; -- called also pentine.
Valet (n.) A male waiting servant; a servant who attends on gentleman's person; a body servant.
Valet (n.) A kind of goad or stick with a point of iron.
Valetudinarian (a.) Of infirm health; seeking to recover health; sickly; weakly; infirm.
Valetudinarian (n.) A person of a weak or sickly constitution; one who is seeking to recover health.
Valetudinarianism (n.) The condition of a valetudinarian; a state of feeble health; infirmity.
Valetudinary (a.) Infirm; sickly; valetudinarian.
Valetudinary (n.) A valetudinarian.
Valetudinous (a.) Valetudinarian.
Valhalla (n.) The palace of immortality, inhabited by the souls of heroes slain in battle.
Valhalla (n.) Fig.: A hall or temple adorned with statues and memorials of a nation's heroes; specifically, the Pantheon near Ratisbon, in Bavaria, consecrated to the illustrious dead of all Germany.
Valiance (n.) Alt. of Valiancy
Valiancy (n.) The quality or state of being valiant; bravery; valor.
Valiant (a.) Vigorous in body; strong; powerful; as, a valiant fencer.
Valiant (a.) Intrepid in danger; courageous; brave.
Valiant (a.) Performed with valor or bravery; heroic.
Valid (a.) Strong; powerful; efficient.
Valid (a.) Having sufficient strength or force; founded in truth; capable of being justified, defended, or supported; not weak or defective; sound; good; efficacious; as, a valid argument; a valid objection.
Valid (a.) Having legal strength or force; executed with the proper formalities; incapable of being rightfully overthrown or set aside; as, a valid deed; a valid covenant; a valid instrument of any kind; a valid claim or title; a valid marriage.
Validate (v. t.) To confirm; to render valid; to give legal force to.
Validation (n.) The act of giving validity.
Validity (n.) The quality or state of being valid; strength; force; especially, power to convince; justness; soundness; as, the validity of an argument or proof; the validity of an objection.
Validity (n.) Legal strength, force, or authority; that quality of a thing which renders it supportable in law, or equity; as, the validity of a will; the validity of a contract, claim, or title.
Validity (n.) Value.
Validly (adv.) In a valid manner; so as to be valid.
Validness (n.) The quality or state of being valid.
Valinch (n.) A tube for drawing liquors from a cask by the bunghole.
Valise (n.) A small sack or case, usually of leather, but sometimes of other material, for containing the clothes, toilet articles, etc., of a traveler; a traveling bag; a portmanteau.
Valkyria (n.) One of the maidens of Odin, represented as awful and beautiful, who presided over battle and marked out those who were to be slain, and who also ministered at the feasts of heroes in Valhalla.
Valkyrian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Valkyrias; hence, relating to battle.
Vallancy (n.) A large wig that shades the face.
Vallar (a.) Of or pertaining to a rampart.
Vallar (n.) A vallar crown.
Vallary (a.) Same as Vallar.
Vallation (n.) A rampart or intrenchment.
Vallatory (a.) Of or pertaining to a vallation; used for a vallation; as, vallatory reads.
Valleculae (pl. ) of Vallecula
Vallecula (n.) A groove; a fossa; as, the vallecula, or fossa, which separates the hemispheres of the cerebellum.
Vallecula (n.) One of the grooves, or hollows, between the ribs of the fruit of umbelliferous plants.
Vallet's pills () Pills containing sulphate of iron and carbonate of sodium, mixed with saccharine matter; -- called also Vallet's mass.
Valleys (pl. ) of Valley
Valley (n.) The space inclosed between ranges of hills or mountains; the strip of land at the bottom of the depressions intersecting a country, including usually the bed of a stream, with frequently broad alluvial plains on one or both sides of the stream. Also used figuratively.
Valley (n.) The place of meeting of two slopes of a roof, which have their plates running in different directions, and form on the plan a reentrant angle.
Valley (n.) The depression formed by the meeting of two slopes on a flat roof.
Valla (pl. ) of Vallum
Vallums (pl. ) of Vallum
Vallum (n.) A rampart; a wall, as in a fortification.
Valonia (n.) The acorn cup of two kinds of oak (Quercus macrolepis, and Q. vallonea) found in Eastern Europe. It contains abundance of tannin, and is much used by tanners and dyers.
Valonia (n.) A genus of marine green algae, in which the whole frond consists of a single oval or cylindrical cell, often an inch in length.
Valor (n.) Value; worth.
Valor (n.) Strength of mind in regard to danger; that quality which enables a man to encounter danger with firmness; personal bravery; courage; prowess; intrepidity.
Valor (n.) A brave man; a man of valor.
Valorous (a.) Possessing or exhibiting valor; brave; courageous; valiant; intrepid.
Valsalvian (a.) Of or pertaining to Valsalva, an Italian anatomist of the 17th century.
Valuable (a.) Having value or worth; possessing qualities which are useful and esteemed; precious; costly; as, a valuable horse; valuable land; a valuable cargo.
Valuable (a.) Worthy; estimable; deserving esteem; as, a valuable friend; a valuable companion.
Valuable (n.) A precious possession; a thing of value, especially a small thing, as an article of jewelry; -- used mostly in the plural.
Valuableness (n.) The quality of being valuable.
Valuably (adv.) So as to be of value.
Valuation (n.) The act of valuing, or of estimating value or worth; the act of setting a price; estimation; appraisement; as, a valuation of lands for the purpose of taxation.
Valuation (n.) Value set upon a thing; estimated value or worth; as, the goods sold for more than their valuation.
Valuator (n.) One who assesses, or sets a value on, anything; an appraiser.
Value (n.) The property or aggregate properties of a thing by which it is rendered useful or desirable, or the degree of such property or sum of properties; worth; excellence; utility; importance.
Value (n.) Worth estimated by any standard of purchasing power, especially by the market price, or the amount of money agreed upon as an equivalent to the utility and cost of anything.
Value (n.) Precise signification; import; as, the value of a word; the value of a legal instrument
Value (n.) Esteem; regard.
Value (n.) The relative length or duration of a tone or note, answering to quantity in prosody; thus, a quarter note [/] has the value of two eighth notes [/].
Value (n.) In an artistical composition, the character of any one part in its relation to other parts and to the whole; -- often used in the plural; as, the values are well given, or well maintained.
Value (n.) Valor.
Valued (imp. & p. p.) of Value
Valuing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Value
Value (v. t.) To estimate the value, or worth, of; to rate at a certain price; to appraise; to reckon with respect to number, power, importance, etc.
Value (v. t.) To rate highly; to have in high esteem; to hold in respect and estimation; to appreciate; to prize; as, to value one for his works or his virtues.
Value (v. t.) To raise to estimation; to cause to have value, either real or apparent; to enhance in value.
Value (v. t.) To be worth; to be equal to in value.
Valued (a.) Highly regarded; esteemed; prized; as, a valued contributor; a valued friend.
Valueless (a.) Being of no value; having no worth.
Valuer (n.) One who values; an appraiser.
Valure (n.) Value.
Valvasor (n.) See Vavasor.
Valvata (n.) A genus of small spiral fresh-water gastropods having an operculum.
Valvate (a.) Resembling, or serving as, a valve; consisting of, or opening by, a valve or valves; valvular.
Valvate (a.) Meeting at the edges without overlapping; -- said of the sepals or the petals of flowers in aestivation, and of leaves in vernation.
Valvate (a.) Opening as if by doors or valves, as most kinds of capsules and some anthers.
Valve (n.) A door; especially, one of a pair of folding doors, or one of the leaves of such a door.
Valve (n.) A lid, plug, or cover, applied to an aperture so that by its movement, as by swinging, lifting and falling, sliding, turning, or the like, it will open or close the aperture to permit or prevent passage, as of a fluid.
Valve (n.) One or more membranous partitions, flaps, or folds, which permit the passage of the contents of a vessel or cavity in one direction, but stop or retard the flow in the opposite direction; as, the ileocolic, mitral, and semilunar valves.
Valve (n.) One of the pieces into which a capsule naturally separates when it bursts.
Valve (n.) One of the two similar portions of the shell of a diatom.
Valve (n.) A small portion of certain anthers, which opens like a trapdoor to allow the pollen to escape, as in the barberry.
Valve (n.) One of the pieces or divisions of bivalve or multivalve shells.
Valved (a.) Having a valve or valve; valvate.
Valvelet (n.) A little valve; a valvule; especially, one of the pieces which compose the outer covering of a pericarp.
Valve-shell (n.) Any fresh-water gastropod of the genus Valvata.
Valvulae (pl. ) of Valvula
Valvula (n.) A little valve or fold; a valvelet; a valvule.
Valvular (a.) Of or pertaining to a valve or valves; specifically (Med.), of or pertaining to the valves of the heart; as, valvular disease.
Valvular (a.) Containing valves; serving as a valve; opening by valves; valvate; as, a valvular capsule.
Valvule (n.) A little valve; a valvelet.
Valvule (n.) A small valvelike process.
Valylene (n.) A volatile liquid hydrocarbon, C5H6, related to ethylene and acetylene, but possessing the property of unsaturation in the third degree. It is the only known member of a distinct series of compounds. It has a garlic odor.
Vambrace (n.) The piece designed to protect the arm from the elbow to the wrist.
Vamose (v. i. & t.) To depart quickly; to depart from.
Vamp (v. i.) To advance; to travel.
Vamp (n.) The part of a boot or shoe above the sole and welt, and in front of the ankle seam; an upper.
Vamp (n.) Any piece added to an old thing to give it a new appearance. See Vamp, v. t.
Vamped (imp. & p. p.) of Vamp
Vamping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vamp
Vamp (v. t.) To provide, as a shoe, with new upper leather; hence, to piece, as any old thing, with a new part; to repair; to patch; -- often followed by up.
Vamper (n.) One who vamps; one who pieces an old thing with something new; a cobbler.
Vamper (v. i.) To swagger; to make an ostentatious show.
Vampire (n.) A blood-sucking ghost; a soul of a dead person superstitiously believed to come from the grave and wander about by night sucking the blood of persons asleep, thus causing their death. This superstition is now prevalent in parts of Eastern Europe, and was especially current in Hungary about the year 1730.
Vampire (n.) Fig.: One who lives by preying on others; an extortioner; a bloodsucker.
Vampire (n.) Either one of two or more species of South American blood-sucking bats belonging to the genera Desmodus and Diphylla. These bats are destitute of molar teeth, but have strong, sharp cutting incisors with which they make punctured wounds from which they suck the blood of horses, cattle, and other animals, as well as man, chiefly during sleep. They have a caecal appendage to the stomach, in which the blood with which they gorge themselves is stored.
Vampire (n.) Any one of several species of harmless tropical American bats of the genus Vampyrus, especially V. spectrum. These bats feed upon insects and fruit, but were formerly erroneously supposed to suck the blood of man and animals. Called also false vampire.
Vampirism (n.) Belief in the existence of vampires.
Vampirism (n.) The actions of a vampire; the practice of bloodsucking.
Vampirism (n.) Fig.: The practice of extortion.
Vamplate (n.) A round of iron on the shaft of a tilting spear, to protect the hand.
Vamure (n.) See Vauntmure.
Van (n.) The front of an army; the first line or leading column; also, the front line or foremost division of a fleet, either in sailing or in battle.
Van (n.) A shovel used in cleansing ore.
Van (v. t.) To wash or cleanse, as a small portion of ore, on a shovel.
Van (n.) A light wagon, either covered or open, used by tradesmen and others fore the transportation of goods.
Van (n.) A large covered wagon for moving furniture, etc., also for conveying wild beasts, etc., for exhibition.
Van (n.) A close railway car for baggage. See the Note under Car, 2.
Van (n.) A fan or other contrivance, as a sieve, for winnowing grain.
Van (n.) A wing with which the air is beaten.
Van (v. t.) To fan, or to cleanse by fanning; to winnow.
Vanadate (n.) A salt of vanadic acid.
Vanadic (a.) Pertaining to, or obtained from, vanadium; containing vanadium; specifically distinguished those compounds in which vanadium has a relatively higher valence as contrasted with the vanadious compounds; as, vanadic oxide.
Vanadinite (n.) A mineral occurring in yellowish, and ruby-red hexagonal crystals. It consist of lead vanadate with a small proportion of lead chloride.
Vanadious (a.) Pertaining to, or containing, vanadium; specifically, designating those compounds in which vanadium has a lower valence as contrasted with the vanadic compounds; as, vanadious acid.
Vanadite (n.) A salt of vanadious acid, analogous to a nitrite or a phosphite.
Vanadium (n.) A rare element of the nitrogen-phosphorus group, found combined, in vanadates, in certain minerals, and reduced as an infusible, grayish-white metallic powder. It is intermediate between the metals and the non-metals, having both basic and acid properties. Symbol V (or Vd, rarely). Atomic weight 51.2.
Vanadous (a.) Of or pertaining to vanadium; obtained from vanadium; -- said of an acid containing one equivalent of vanadium and two of oxygen.
Vanadyl (n.) The hypothetical radical VO, regarded as a characterized residue of certain vanadium compounds.
Van-courier (n.) One sent in advance; an avant-courier; a precursor.
Vandal (n.) One of a Teutonic race, formerly dwelling on the south shore of the Baltic, the most barbarous and fierce of the northern nations that plundered Rome in the 5th century, notorious for destroying the monuments of art and literature.
Vandal (n.) Hence, one who willfully destroys or defaces any work of art or literature.
Vandal (a.) Alt. of Vandalic
Vandalic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Vandals; resembling the Vandals in barbarism and destructiveness.
Vandalism (n.) The spirit or conduct of the Vandals; ferocious cruelty; hostility to the arts and literature, or willful destruction or defacement of their monuments.
Vandyke (a.) Of or pertaining to the style of Vandyke the painter; used or represented by Vandyke.
Vandyke (n.) A picture by Vandyke. Also, a Vandyke collar, or a Vandyke edge.
Vandyke (v. t.) fit or furnish with a Vandyke; to form with points or scallops like a Vandyke.
Vane (n.) A contrivance attached to some elevated object for the purpose of showing which way the wind blows; a weathercock. It is usually a plate or strip of metal, or slip of wood, often cut into some fanciful form, and placed upon a perpendicular axis around which it moves freely.
Vane (n.) Any flat, extended surface attached to an axis and moved by the wind; as, the vane of a windmill; hence, a similar fixture of any form moved in or by water, air, or other fluid; as, the vane of a screw propeller, a fan blower, an anemometer, etc.
Vane (n.) The rhachis and web of a feather taken together.
Vane (n.) One of the sights of a compass, quadrant, etc.
Vanessa (n.) Any one of numerous species of handsomely colored butterflies belonging to Vanessa and allied genera. Many of these species have the edges of the wings irregularly scalloped.
Vanessian (n.) A vanessa.
Vanfess (n.) A ditch on the outside of the counterscarp, usually full of water.
Vang (n.) A rope to steady the peak of a gaff.
Vanglo (n.) Benne (Sesamum orientale); also, its seeds; -- so called in the West Indies.
Vanguard (n.) The troops who march in front of an army; the advance guard; the van.
Vanilla (n.) A genus of climbing orchidaceous plants, natives of tropical America.
Vanilla (n.) The long podlike capsules of Vanilla planifolia, and V. claviculata, remarkable for their delicate and agreeable odor, for the volatile, odoriferous oil extracted from them; also, the flavoring extract made from the capsules, extensively used in confectionery, perfumery, etc.
Vanillate (n.) A salt of vanillic acid.
Vanillic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, vanilla or vanillin; resembling vanillin; specifically, designating an alcohol and an acid respectively, vanillin being the intermediate aldehyde.
Vanillin (n.) A white crystalline aldehyde having a burning taste and characteristic odor of vanilla. It is extracted from vanilla pods, and is also obtained by the decomposition of coniferin, and by the oxidation of eugenol.
Vanilloes (n. pl.) An inferior kind of vanilla, the pods of Vanilla Pompona.
Vanillyl (n.) The hypothetical radical characteristic of vanillic alcohol.
Vaniloquence (n.) Vain or foolish talk.
Vanished (imp. & p. p.) of Vanish
Vanishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vanish
Vanish (v. i.) To pass from a visible to an invisible state; to go out of sight; to disappear; to fade; as, vapor vanishes from the sight by being dissipated; a ship vanishes from the sight of spectators on land.
Vanish (v. i.) To be annihilated or lost; to pass away.
Vanish (n.) The brief terminal part of vowel or vocal element, differing more or less in quality from the main part; as, a as in ale ordinarily ends with a vanish of i as in ill, o as in old with a vanish of oo as in foot.
Vanishing () a. & n. from Vanish, v.
Vanishment (n.) A vanishing.
Vanities (pl. ) of Vanity
Vanity (n.) The quality or state of being vain; want of substance to satisfy desire; emptiness; unsubstantialness; unrealness; falsity.
Vanity (n.) An inflation of mind upon slight grounds; empty pride inspired by an overweening conceit of one's personal attainments or decorations; an excessive desire for notice or approval; pride; ostentation; conceit.
Vanity (n.) That which is vain; anything empty, visionary, unreal, or unsubstantial; fruitless desire or effort; trifling labor productive of no good; empty pleasure; vain pursuit; idle show; unsubstantial enjoyment.
Vanity (n.) One of the established characters in the old moralities and puppet shows. See Morality, n., 5.
Vanjas (n.) The Australian pied crow shrike (Strepera graculina). It is glossy bluish black, with the under tail coverts and the tips and bases of the tail feathers white.
Vanner (n.) A machine for concentrating ore. See Frue vanner.
Vanner hawk () The kestrel.
Vanning (n.) A process by which ores are washed on a shovel, or in a vanner.
Vanquished (imp. & p. p.) of Vanquish
Vanquishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vanquish
Vanquish (v. t.) To conquer, overcome, or subdue in battle, as an enemy.
Vanquish (v. t.) Hence, to defeat in any contest; to get the better of; to put down; to refute.
Vanquish (n.) A disease in sheep, in which they pine away.
Vanquishable (a.) That may be vanquished.
Vanquisher (n.) One who, or that which, vanquishes.
Vanquishment (n.) The act of vanquishing, or the state of being vanquished.
Vansire (n.) An ichneumon (Herpestes galera) native of Southern Africa and Madagascar. It is reddish brown or dark brown, grizzled with white. Called also vondsira, and marsh ichneumon.
Vant (v. i.) See Vaunt.
Vantage (n.) superior or more favorable situation or opportunity; gain; profit; advantage.
Vantage (n.) The first point after deuce.
Vantage (v. t.) To profit; to aid.
Vantbrace (n.) Alt. of Vantbrass
Vantbrass (n.) Armor for the arm; vambrace.
Vant-courier (n.) An avant-courier. See Van-courier.
Vanward (a.) Being on, or towards, the van, or front.
Vap (n.) That which is vapid, insipid, or lifeless; especially, the lifeless part of liquor or wine.
Vapid (a.) Having lost its life and spirit; dead; spiritless; insipid; flat; dull; unanimated; as, vapid beer; a vapid speech; a vapid state of the blood.
Vapidity (n.) The quality or state of being vapid; vapidness.
Vapor (n.) Any substance in the gaseous, or aeriform, state, the condition of which is ordinarily that of a liquid or solid.
Vapor (n.) In a loose and popular sense, any visible diffused substance floating in the atmosphere and impairing its transparency, as smoke, fog, etc.
Vapor (n.) Wind; flatulence.
Vapor (n.) Something unsubstantial, fleeting, or transitory; unreal fancy; vain imagination; idle talk; boasting.
Vapor (n.) An old name for hypochondria, or melancholy; the blues.
Vapor (n.) A medicinal agent designed for administration in the form of inhaled vapor.
Vapored (imp. & p. p.) of Vapor
Vaporing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vapor
Vapor (n.) To pass off in fumes, or as a moist, floating substance, whether visible or invisible, to steam; to be exhaled; to evaporate.
Vapor (n.) To emit vapor or fumes.
Vapor (n.) To talk idly; to boast or vaunt; to brag.
Vapor (v. t.) To send off in vapor, or as if in vapor; as, to vapor away a heated fluid.
Vaporability (n.) The quality or state of being vaporable.
Vaporable (a.) Capable of being converted into vapor by the agency of heat; vaporizable.
Vaporate (v. i.) To emit vapor; to evaporate.
Vaporation (n.) The act or process of converting into vapor, or of passing off in vapor; evaporation.
Vapored (a.) Wet with vapors; moist.
Vapored (a.) Affected with the vapors. See Vapor, n., 5.
Vaporer (n.) One who vapors; a braggart.
Vaporiferous (a.) Conveying or producing vapor.
Vaporific (a.) Producing vapor; tending to pass, or to cause to pass, into vapor; thus, volatile fluids are vaporific; heat is a vaporific agent.
Vaporiform (a.) Existing in a vaporous form or state; as, steam is a vaporiform substance.
Vaporimeter (n.) An instrument for measuring the volume or the tension of any vapor; specifically, an instrument of this sort used as an alcoholometer in testing spirituous liquors.
Vaporing (a.) Talking idly; boasting; vaunting.
Vaporish (a.) Full of vapors; vaporous.
Vaporish (a.) Hypochondriacal; affected by hysterics; splenetic; peevish; humorsome.
Vaporizable (a.) Capable of being vaporized into vapor.
Vaporization (n.) The act or process of vaporizing, or the state of being converted into vapor; the artificial formation of vapor; specifically, the conversion of water into steam, as in a steam boiler.
Vaporized (imp. & p. p.) of Vaporize
Vaporizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vaporize
Vaporize (v. t.) To convert into vapor, as by the application of heat, whether naturally or artificially.
Vaporize (v. i.) To pass off in vapor.
Vaporizer (n.) One who, or that which, vaporizes, or converts into vapor.
Vaporose (a.) Full of vapor; vaporous.
Vaporous (a.) Having the form or nature of vapor.
Vaporous (a.) Full of vapors or exhalations.
Vaporous (a.) Producing vapors; hence, windy; flatulent.
Vaporous (a.) Unreal; unsubstantial; vain; whimsical.
Vaporousness (n.) The quality of being vaporous.
Vapory (a.) Full of vapors; vaporous.
Vapory (a.) Hypochondriacal; splenetic; peevish.
Vapulation (n.) The act of beating or whipping.
Vaquero (n.) One who has charge of cattle, horses, etc.; a herdsman.
Vara (n.) A Spanish measure of length equal to about one yard. The vara now in use equals 33.385 inches.
Varan (n.) The monitor. See Monitor, 3.
Varangian (n.) One of the Northmen who founded a dynasty in Russia in the 9th century; also, one of the Northmen composing, at a later date, the imperial bodyguard at Constantinople.
Varanus (n.) A genus of very large lizards native of Asia and Africa. It includes the monitors. See Monitor, 3.
Vare (n.) A wand or staff of authority or justice.
Vare (n.) A weasel.
Varec (n.) The calcined ashes of any coarse seaweed used for the manufacture of soda and iodine; also, the seaweed itself; fucus; wrack.
Vari (n.) The ringtailed lemur (Lemur catta) of Madagascar. Its long tail is annulated with black and white.
Variability (n.) The quality or state of being variable; variableness.
Variability (n.) The power possessed by living organisms, both animal and vegetable, of adapting themselves to modifications or changes in their environment, thus possibly giving rise to ultimate variation of structure or function.
Variable (a.) Having the capacity of varying or changing; capable of alternation in any manner; changeable; as, variable winds or seasons; a variable quantity.
Variable (a.) Liable to vary; too susceptible of change; mutable; fickle; unsteady; inconstant; as, the affections of men are variable; passions are variable.
Variable (n.) That which is variable; that which varies, or is subject to change.
Variable (n.) A quantity which may increase or decrease; a quantity which admits of an infinite number of values in the same expression; a variable quantity; as, in the equation x2 - y2 = R2, x and y are variables.
Variable (n.) A shifting wind, or one that varies in force.
Variable (n.) Those parts of the sea where a steady wind is not expected, especially the parts between the trade-wind belts.
Variableness (n.) The quality or state of being variable; variability.
Variably (adv.) In a variable manner.
Variance (n.) The quality or state of being variant; change of condition; variation.
Variance (n.) Difference that produce dispute or controversy; disagreement; dissension; discord; dispute; quarrel.
Variance (n.) A disagreement or difference between two parts of the same legal proceeding, which, to be effectual, ought to agree, -- as between the writ and the declaration, or between the allegation and the proof.
Variant (a.) Varying in from, character, or the like; variable; different; diverse.
Variant (a.) Changeable; changing; fickle.
Variant (n.) Something which differs in form from another thing, though really the same; as, a variant from a type in natural history; a variant of a story or a word.
Variate (v. t. & i.) To alter; to make different; to vary.
Variation (n.) The act of varying; a partial change in the form, position, state, or qualities of a thing; modification; alternation; mutation; diversity; deviation; as, a variation of color in different lights; a variation in size; variation of language.
Variation (n.) Extent to which a thing varies; amount of departure from a position or state; amount or rate of change.
Variation (n.) Change of termination of words, as in declension, conjugation, derivation, etc.
Variation (n.) Repetition of a theme or melody with fanciful embellishments or modifications, in time, tune, or harmony, or sometimes change of key; the presentation of a musical thought in new and varied aspects, yet so that the essential features of the original shall still preserve their identity.
Variation (n.) One of the different arrangements which can be made of any number of quantities taking a certain number of them together.
Varicella (n.) Chicken pox.
Varices (n. pl.) See Varix.
Variciform (a.) Resembling a varix.
Varicocele (n.) A varicose enlargement of the veins of the spermatic cord; also, a like enlargement of the veins of the scrotum.
Varicose (a.) Irregularly swollen or enlarged; affected with, or containing, varices, or varicosities; of or pertaining to varices, or varicosities; as, a varicose nerve fiber; a varicose vein; varicose ulcers.
Varicose (a.) Intended for the treatment of varicose veins; -- said of elastic stockings, bandages. and the like.
Varicosity (n.) The quality or state of being varicose.
Varicosity (n.) An enlargement or swelling in a vessel, fiber, or the like; a varix; as, the varicosities of nerve fibers.
Varicous (a.) Varicose.
Varied (a.) Changed; altered; various; diversified; as, a varied experience; varied interests; varied scenery.
Variegated (imp. & p. p.) of Variegate
Variegating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Variegate
Variegate (v. t.) To diversify in external appearance; to mark with different colors; to dapple; to streak; as, to variegate a floor with marble of different colors.
Variegated (a.) Having marks or patches of different colors; as, variegated leaves, or flowers.
Variegation (n.) The act of variegating or diversifying, or the state of being diversified, by different colors; diversity of colors.
Varier (n.) A wanderer; one who strays in search of variety.
Varietal (a.) Of or pertaining to a variety; characterizing a variety; constituting a variety, in distinction from an individual or species.
Varietas (n.) A variety; -- used in giving scientific names, and often abbreviated to var.
Varieties (pl. ) of Variety
Variety (n.) The quality or state of being various; intermixture or succession of different things; diversity; multifariousness.
Variety (n.) That which is various.
Variety (n.) A number or collection of different things; a varied assortment; as, a variety of cottons and silks.
Variety (n.) Something varying or differing from others of the same general kind; one of a number of things that are akin; a sort; as, varieties of wood, land, rocks, etc.
Variety (n.) An individual, or group of individuals, of a species differing from the rest in some one or more of the characteristics typical of the species, and capable either of perpetuating itself for a period, or of being perpetuated by artificial means; hence, a subdivision, or peculiar form, of a species.
Variety (n.) In inorganic nature, one of those forms in which a species may occur, which differ in minor characteristics of structure, color, purity of composition, etc.
Variform (a.) Having different shapes or forms.
Variformed (a.) Formed with different shapes; having various forms; variform.
Varify (v. t.) To make different; to vary; to variegate.
Variola (n.) The smallpox.
Variolar (a.) Variolous.
Variolation (n.) Inoculation with smallpox.
Variolic (a.) Variolous.
Variolite (n.) A kind of diorite or diabase containing imbedded whitish spherules, which give the rock a spotted appearance.
Variolitic (a.) Thickly marked with small, round specks; spotted.
Variolitic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, variolite.
Varioloid (a.) Resembling smallpox; pertaining to the disease called varioloid.
Varioloid (a.) The smallpox as modified by previous inoculation or vaccination.
Variolous (a.) Of or pertaining to the smallpox; having pits, or sunken impressions, like those of the smallpox; variolar; variolic.
Variorum (a.) Containing notes by different persons; -- applied to a publication; as, a variorum edition of a book.
Various (a.) Different; diverse; several; manifold; as, men of various names; various occupations; various colors.
Various (a.) Changeable; uncertain; inconstant; variable.
Various (a.) Variegated; diversified; not monotonous.
Variously (adv.) In various or different ways.
Variscite (n.) An apple-green mineral occurring in reniform masses. It is a hydrous phosphate of alumina.
Varisse (n.) An imperfection on the inside of the hind leg in horses, different from a curb, but at the same height, and frequently injuring the sale of the animal by growing to an unsightly size.
Varices (pl. ) of Varix
Varix (n.) A uneven, permanent dilatation of a vein.
Varix (n.) One of the prominent ridges or ribs extending across each of the whorls of certain univalve shells.
Vark (n.) The bush hog, or boshvark.
Varlet (n.) A servant, especially to a knight; an attendant; a valet; a footman.
Varlet (n.) Hence, a low fellow; a scoundrel; a rascal; as, an impudent varlet.
Varlet (n.) In a pack of playing cards, the court card now called the knave, or jack.
Varletry (n.) The rabble; the crowd; the mob.
Varnish (n.) A viscid liquid, consisting of a solution of resinous matter in an oil or a volatile liquid, laid on work with a brush, or otherwise. When applied the varnish soon dries, either by evaporation or chemical action, and the resinous part forms thus a smooth, hard surface, with a beautiful gloss, capable of resisting, to a greater or less degree, the influences of air and moisture.
Varnish (n.) That which resembles varnish, either naturally or artificially; a glossy appearance.
Varnish (n.) An artificial covering to give a fair appearance to any act or conduct; outside show; gloss.
Varnished (imp. & p. p.) of Varnish
Varnishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Varnish
Varnish (n.) To lay varnish on; to cover with a liquid which produces, when dry, a hard, glossy surface; as, to varnish a table; to varnish a painting.
Varnish (n.) To cover or conceal with something that gives a fair appearance; to give a fair coloring to by words; to gloss over; to palliate; as, to varnish guilt.
Varnisher (n.) One who varnishes; one whose occupation is to varnish.
Varnisher (n.) One who disguises or palliates; one who gives a fair external appearance.
Varnishing (n.) The act of laying on varnish; also, materials for varnish.
Vartabed (n.) A doctor or teacher in the Armenian church. Members of this order of ecclesiastics frequently have charge of dioceses, with episcopal functions.
Varuna (n.) The god of the waters; the Indian Neptune. He is regarded as regent of the west, and lord of punishment, and is represented as riding on a sea monster, holding in his hand a snaky cord or noose with which to bind offenders, under water.
Varvel (n.) In falconry, one of the rings secured to the ends of the jesses.
Varveled (a.) Having varvels, or rings.
Varied (imp. & p. p.) of Vary
Varying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vary
Vary (v. t.) To change the aspect of; to alter in form, appearance, substance, position, or the like; to make different by a partial change; to modify; as, to vary the properties, proportions, or nature of a thing; to vary a posture or an attitude; to vary one's dress or opinions.
Vary (v. t.) To change to something else; to transmute; to exchange; to alternate.
Vary (v. t.) To make of different kinds; to make different from one another; to diversity; to variegate.
Vary (v. t.) To embellish; to change fancifully; to present under new aspects, as of form, key, measure, etc. See Variation, 4.
Vary (v. i.) To alter, or be altered, in any manner; to suffer a partial change; to become different; to be modified; as, colors vary in different lights.
Vary (v. i.) To differ, or be different; to be unlike or diverse; as, the laws of France vary from those of England.
Vary (v. i.) To alter or change in succession; to alternate; as, one mathematical quantity varies inversely as another.
Vary (v. i.) To deviate; to depart; to swerve; -- followed by from; as, to vary from the law, or from reason.
Vary (v. i.) To disagree; to be at variance or in dissension; as, men vary in opinion.
Vary (n.) Alteration; change.
Varying () a. & n. from Vary.
Vasa (pl. ) of Vas
Vas (n.) A vessel; a duct.
Vasa deferentia (pl. ) of Vas
Vascular (a.) Consisting of, or containing, vessels as an essential part of a structure; full of vessels; specifically (Bot.), pertaining to, or containing, special ducts, or tubes, for the circulation of sap.
Vascular (a.) Operating by means of, or made up of an arrangement of, vessels; as, the vascular system in animals, including the arteries, veins, capillaries, lacteals, etc.
Vascular (a.) Of or pertaining to the vessels of animal and vegetable bodies; as, the vascular functions.
Vascular (a.) Of or pertaining to the higher division of plants, that is, the phaenogamous plants, all of which are vascular, in distinction from the cryptogams, which to a large extent are cellular only.
Vascularities (pl. ) of Vascularity
Vascularity (n.) The quality or state of being vascular.
Vasculose (n.) One of the substances of which vegetable tissue is composed, differing from cellulose in its solubility in certain media.
Vascula (pl. ) of Vasculum
Vasculum (n.) Same as Ascidium, n., 1.
Vasculum (n.) A tin box, commonly cylindrical or flattened, used in collecting plants.
Vase (n.) A vessel adapted for various domestic purposes, and anciently for sacrificial uses; especially, a vessel of antique or elegant pattern used for ornament; as, a porcelain vase; a gold vase; a Grecian vase. See Illust. of Portland vase, under Portland.
Vase (n.) A vessel similar to that described in the first definition above, or the representation of one in a solid block of stone, or the like, used for an ornament, as on a terrace or in a garden. See Illust. of Niche.
Vase (n.) The body, or naked ground, of the Corinthian and Composite capital; -- called also tambour, and drum.
Vase (n.) The calyx of a plant.
Vaseline (n.) A yellowish translucent substance, almost odorless and tasteless, obtained as a residue in the purification of crude petroleum, and consisting essentially of a mixture of several of the higher members of the paraffin series. It is used as an unguent, and for various purposes in the arts. See the Note under Petrolatum.
Vase-shaped (a.) Formed like a vase, or like a common flowerpot.
Vasiform (a.) Having the form of a vessel, or duct.
Vasoconstrictor (a.) Causing constriction of the blood vessels; as, the vasoconstrictor nerves, stimulation of which causes constriction of the blood vessels to which they go. These nerves are also called vasohypertonic.
Vasoconstrictor (n.) A substance which causes constriction of the blood vessels. Such substances are used in medicine to raise blood pressure.
Vasodentine (n.) A modified form of dentine, which is permeated by blood capillaries; vascular dentine.
Vasodilator (a.) Causing dilation or relaxation of the blood vessels; as, the vasodilator nerves, stimulation of which causes dilation of the blood vessels to which they go. These nerves are also called vaso-inhibitory, and vasohypotonic nerves, since their stimulation causes relaxation and rest.
Vasoformative (a.) Concerned in the development and formation of blood vessels and blood corpuscles; as, the vasoformative cells.
Vaso-inhibitory (a.) See Vasodilator.
Vasomotor (a.) Causing movement in the walls of vessels; as, the vasomotor mechanisms; the vasomotor nerves, a system of nerves distributed over the muscular coats of the blood vessels.
Vassal (n.) The grantee of a fief, feud, or fee; one who holds land of superior, and who vows fidelity and homage to him; a feudatory; a feudal tenant.
Vassal (n.) A subject; a dependent; a servant; a slave.
Vassal (a.) Resembling a vassal; slavish; servile.
Vassal (v. t.) To treat as a vassal; to subject to control; to enslave.
Vassalage (n.) The state of being a vassal, or feudatory.
Vassalage (n.) Political servitude; dependence; subjection; slavery; as, the Greeks were held in vassalage by the Turks.
Vassalage (n.) A territory held in vassalage.
Vassalage (n.) Vassals, collectively; vassalry.
Vassalage (n.) Valorous service, such as that performed by a vassal; valor; prowess; courage.
Vassaless (n.) A female vassal.
Vassalry (n.) The body of vassals.
Vast (superl.) Waste; desert; desolate; lonely.
Vast (superl.) Of great extent; very spacious or large; also, huge in bulk; immense; enormous; as, the vast ocean; vast mountains; the vast empire of Russia.
Vast (superl.) Very great in numbers, quantity, or amount; as, a vast army; a vast sum of money.
Vast (superl.) Very great in importance; as, a subject of vast concern.
Vast (n.) A waste region; boundless space; immensity.
Vastation (n.) A laying waste; waste; depopulation; devastation.
Vastel (n.) See Wastel.
Vastidity (n.) Vastness; immensity.
Vastitude (n.) Vastness; immense extent.
Vastitude (n.) Destruction; vastation.
Vastity (n.) Vastness.
Vastly (adv.) To a vast extent or degree; very greatly; immensely.
Vastness (n.) The quality or state of being vast.
Vasty (a.) Vast; immense.
Vasum (n.) A genus including several species of large marine gastropods having massive pyriform shells, with conspicuous folds on the columella.
Vat (n.) A large vessel, cistern, or tub, especially one used for holding in an immature state, chemical preparations for dyeing, or for tanning, or for tanning leather, or the like.
Vat (n.) A measure for liquids, and also a dry measure; especially, a liquid measure in Belgium and Holland, corresponding to the hectoliter of the metric system, which contains 22.01 imperial gallons, or 26.4 standard gallons in the United States.
Vat (n.) A wooden tub for washing ores and mineral substances in.
Vat (n.) A square, hollow place on the back of a calcining furnace, where tin ore is laid to dry.
Vat (n.) A vessel for holding holy water.
Vatted (imp. & p. p.) of Vat
Vatting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vat
Vat (v. t.) To put or transfer into a vat.
Vatfuls (pl. ) of Vatful
Vatful (n.) As much as a vat will hold; enough to fill a vat.
Vatical (a.) Of or pertaining to a prophet; prophetical.
Vatican (n.) A magnificent assemblage of buildings at Rome, near the church of St. Peter, including the pope's palace, a museum, a library, a famous chapel, etc.
Vaticanism (n.) The doctrine of papal supremacy; extreme views in support of the authority of the pope; ultramontanism; -- a term used only by persons who are not Roman Catholics.
Vaticanist (n.) One who strongly adheres to the papal authority; an ultramontanist.
Vaticide (n.) The murder, or the murderer, of a prophet.
Vaticinal (a.) Of or pertaining to prophecy; prophetic.
Vaticinate (v. i. & t.) To prophesy; to foretell; to practice prediction; to utter prophecies.
Vaticination (n.) Prediction; prophecy.
Vaticinator (n.) One who vaticinates; a prophet.
Vaticine (n.) A prediction; a vaticination.
Vaudeville (n.) A kind of song of a lively character, frequently embodying a satire on some person or event, sung to a familiar air in couplets with a refrain; a street song; a topical song.
Vaudeville (n.) A theatrical piece, usually a comedy, the dialogue of which is intermingled with light or satirical songs, set to familiar airs.
Vaudois (n. sing. & pl.) An inhabitant, or the inhabitants, of the Swiss canton of Vaud.
Vaudois (n. sing. & pl.) A modern name of the Waldenses.
Vaudoux (n. & a.) See Voodoo.
Vault (n.) An arched structure of masonry, forming a ceiling or canopy.
Vault (n.) An arched apartment; especially, a subterranean room, use for storing articles, for a prison, for interment, or the like; a cell; a cellar.
Vault (n.) The canopy of heaven; the sky.
Vault (n.) A leap or bound.
Vault (n.) The bound or leap of a horse; a curvet.
Vault (n.) A leap by aid of the hands, or of a pole, springboard, or the like.
Vaulted (imp. & p. p.) of Vault
Vaulting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vault
Vault (v. t.) To form with a vault, or to cover with a vault; to give the shape of an arch to; to arch; as, vault a roof; to vault a passage to a court.
Vault (v. i.) To leap over; esp., to leap over by aid of the hands or a pole; as, to vault a fence.
Vault (n.) To leap; to bound; to jump; to spring.
Vault (n.) To exhibit feats of tumbling or leaping; to tumble.
Vaultage (n.) Vaulted work; also, a vaulted place; an arched cellar.
Vaulted (a.) Arched; concave; as, a vaulted roof.
Vaulted (a.) Covered with an arch, or vault.
Vaulted (a.) Arched like the roof of the mouth, as the upper lip of many ringent flowers.
Vaulter (n.) One who vaults; a leaper; a tumbler.
Vaulting (n.) The act of constructing vaults; a vaulted construction.
Vaulting (n.) Act of one who vaults or leaps.
Vaulty (a.) Arched; concave.
Vaunce (v. i.) To advance.
Vaunted (imp. & p. p.) of Vaunt
Vaunting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vaunt
Vaunt (v. i.) To boast; to make a vain display of one's own worth, attainments, decorations, or the like; to talk ostentatiously; to brag.
Vaunt (v. t.) To boast of; to make a vain display of; to display with ostentation.
Vaunt (n.) A vain display of what one is, or has, or has done; ostentation from vanity; a boast; a brag.
Vaunt (n.) The first part.
Vaunt (v. t.) To put forward; to display.
Vaunt-courier (n.) See Van-courier.
Vaunter (n.) One who vaunts; a boaster.
Vauntful (a.) Given to vaunting or boasting; vainly ostentatious; boastful; vainglorious.
Vauntingly (adv.) In a vaunting manner.
Vauntmure (n.) A false wall; a work raised in front of the main wall.
Vauquelinite (n.) Chromate of copper and lead, of various shades of green.
Vaut (v. i.) To vault; to leap.
Vaut (n.) A vault; a leap.
Vauty (a.) Vaulted.
Vavasor (n.) The vassal or tenant of a baron; one who held under a baron, and who also had tenants under him; one in dignity next to a baron; a title of dignity next to a baron.
Vavasory (n.) The quality or tenure of the fee held by a vavasor; also, the lands held by a vavasor.
Vaward (n.) The fore part; van.
Vaza parrot () Any one of several species of parrots of the genus Coracopsis, native of Madagascar; -- called also vasa parrot.
Veadar (n.) The thirteenth, or intercalary, month of the Jewish ecclesiastical calendar, which is added about every third year.
Veal (n.) The flesh of a calf when killed and used for food.
Vection (n.) Vectitation.
Vectitation (n.) The act of carrying, or state of being carried.
Vector (n.) Same as Radius vector.
Vector (n.) A directed quantity, as a straight line, a force, or a velocity. Vectors are said to be equal when their directions are the same their magnitudes equal. Cf. Scalar.
Vecture (n.) The act of carrying; conveyance; carriage.
Veda (n.) The ancient sacred literature of the Hindus; also, one of the four collections, called Rig-Veda, Yajur-Veda, Sama-Veda, and Atharva-Veda, constituting the most ancient portions of that literature.
Vedanta (n.) A system of philosophy among the Hindus, founded on scattered texts of the Vedas, and thence termed the "Anta," or end or substance.
Vedantic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Vedas.
Vedantist (n.) One versed in the doctrines of the Vedantas.
Vedette (n.) A sentinel, usually on horseback, stationed on the outpost of an army, to watch an enemy and give notice of danger; a vidette.
Vedro (n.) A Russian liquid measure, equal to 3.249 gallons of U. S. standard measure, or 2.706 imperial gallons.
Veered (imp. & p. p.) of Veer
Veering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Veer
Veer (v. i.) To change direction; to turn; to shift; as, wind veers to the west or north.
Veer (v. t.) To direct to a different course; to turn; to wear; as, to veer, or wear, a vessel.
Veering (a.) Shifting.
Veery (n.) An American thrush (Turdus fuscescens) common in the Northern United States and Canada. It is light tawny brown above. The breast is pale buff, thickly spotted with brown. Called also Wilson's thrush.
Vega (n.) A brilliant star of the first magnitude, the brightest of those constituting the constellation Lyra.
Vegetability (n.) The quality or state of being vegetable.
Vegetable (v.) Of or pertaining to plants; having the nature of, or produced by, plants; as, a vegetable nature; vegetable growths, juices, etc.
Vegetable (v.) Consisting of, or comprising, plants; as, the vegetable kingdom.
Vegetable (v.) Plants having distinct flowers and true seeds.
Vegetable (v.) Plants without true flowers, and reproduced by minute spores of various kinds, or by simple cell division.
Vegetable (n.) A plant. See Plant.
Vegetable (n.) A plant used or cultivated for food for man or domestic animals, as the cabbage, turnip, potato, bean, dandelion, etc.; also, the edible part of such a plant, as prepared for market or the table.
Vegetal (a.) Of or pertaining to vegetables, or the vegetable kingdom; of the nature of a vegetable; vegetable.
Vegetal (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, that class of vital phenomena, such as digestion, absorption, assimilation, secretion, excretion, circulation, generation, etc., which are common to plants and animals, in distinction from sensation and volition, which are peculiar to animals.
Vegetal (n.) A vegetable.
Vegetality (n.) The quality or state of being vegetal, or vegetable.
Vegetality (n.) The quality or state of being vegetal, or exhibiting those physiological phenomena which are common to plants and animals. See Vegetal, a., 2.
Vegetarian (n.) One who holds that vegetables and fruits are the only proper food for man. Strict vegetarians eat no meat, eggs, or milk.
Vegetarian (a.) Of or pertaining to vegetarianism; as, a vegetarian diet.
Vegetarianism (n.) The theory or practice of living upon vegetables and fruits.
Vegetated (imp. & p. p.) of Vegetate
Vegetating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vegetate
Vegetate (v. i.) To grow, as plants, by nutriment imbibed by means of roots and leaves; to start into growth; to sprout; to germinate.
Vegetate (v. i.) Fig.: To lead a live too low for an animate creature; to do nothing but eat and grow.
Vegetate (v. i.) To grow exuberantly; to produce fleshy or warty outgrowths; as, a vegetating papule.
Vegetation (n.) The act or process of vegetating, or growing as a plant does; vegetable growth.
Vegetation (n.) The sum of vegetable life; vegetables or plants in general; as, luxuriant vegetation.
Vegetation (n.) An exuberant morbid outgrowth upon any part, especially upon the valves of the heart.
Vegetative (a.) Growing, or having the power of growing, as plants; capable of vegetating.
Vegetative (a.) Having the power to produce growth in plants; as, the vegetative properties of soil.
Vegetative (a.) Having relation to growth or nutrition; partaking of simple growth and enlargement of the systems of nutrition, apart from the sensorial or distinctively animal functions; vegetal.
Vegete (a.) Lively; active; sprightly; vigorous.
Vegetive (a.) Having the nature of a plant; vegetable; as, vegetive life.
Vegetive (n.) A vegetable.
Vegeto-animal (a.) Partaking of the nature both of vegetable and animal matter; -- a term sometimes applied to vegetable albumen and gluten, from their resemblance to similar animal products.
Vegetous (a.) Vigorous; lively; active; vegete.
Vehemence (n.) The quality pr state of being vehement; impetuous force; impetuosity; violence; fury; as, the vehemence.
Vehemence (n.) Violent ardor; great heat; animated fervor; as, the vehemence of love, anger, or other passions.
Vehemency (n.) Vehemence.
Vehement (a.) Acting with great force; furious; violent; impetuous; forcible; mighty; as, vehement wind; a vehement torrent; a vehement fire or heat.
Vehement (a.) Very ardent; very eager or urgent; very fervent; passionate; as, a vehement affection or passion.
Vehemently (adv.) In a vehement manner.
Vehicle (n.) That in or on which any person or thing is, or may be, carried, as a coach, carriage, wagon, cart, car, sleigh, bicycle, etc.; a means of conveyance; specifically, a means of conveyance upon land.
Vehicle (n.) That which is used as the instrument of conveyance or communication; as, matter is the vehicle of energy.
Vehicle (n.) A substance in which medicine is taken.
Vehicle (n.) Any liquid with which a pigment is applied, including whatever gum, wax, or glutinous or adhesive substance is combined with it.
Vehicled (a.) Conveyed in a vehicle; furnished with a vehicle.
Vehicular (a.) Of or pertaining to a vehicle; serving as a vehicle; as, a vehicular contrivance.
Vehiculary (a.) Vehicular.
Vehiculate (v. t. & i.) To convey by means of a vehicle; to ride in a vehicle.
Vehiculation (n.) Movement of vehicles.
Vehiculatory (a.) Vehicular.
Vehmic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, certain secret tribunals which flourished in Germany from the end of the 12th century to the middle of the 16th, usurping many of the functions of the government which were too weak to maintain law and order, and inspiring dread in all who came within their jurisdiction.
Veil (n.) Something hung up, or spread out, to intercept the view, and hide an object; a cover; a curtain; esp., a screen, usually of gauze, crape, or similar diaphnous material, to hide or protect the face.
Veil (n.) A cover; disguise; a mask; a pretense.
Veil (n.) The calyptra of mosses.
Veil (n.) A membrane connecting the margin of the pileus of a mushroom with the stalk; -- called also velum.
Veil (n.) A covering for a person or thing; as, a nun's veil; a paten veil; an altar veil.
Veil (n.) Same as Velum, 3.
Veiled (imp. & p. p.) of Veil
Veiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Veil
Veil (n.) To throw a veil over; to cover with a veil.
Veil (n.) Fig.: To invest; to cover; to hide; to conceal.
Veiled (a.) Covered by, or as by, a veil; hidden.
Veiling (n.) A veil; a thin covering; also, material for making veils.
Veilless (a.) Having no veil.
Vein (n.) One of the vessels which carry blood, either venous or arterial, to the heart. See Artery, 2.
Vein (n.) One of the similar branches of the framework of a leaf.
Vein (n.) One of the ribs or nervures of the wings of insects. See Venation.
Vein (n.) A narrow mass of rock intersecting other rocks, and filling inclined or vertical fissures not corresponding with the stratification; a lode; a dike; -- often limited, in the language of miners, to a mineral vein or lode, that is, to a vein which contains useful minerals or ores.
Vein (n.) A fissure, cleft, or cavity, as in the earth or other substance.
Vein (n.) A streak or wave of different color, appearing in wood, and in marble and other stones; variegation.
Vein (n.) A train of association, thoughts, emotions, or the like; a current; a course.
Vein (n.) Peculiar temper or temperament; tendency or turn of mind; a particular disposition or cast of genius; humor; strain; quality; also, manner of speech or action; as, a rich vein of humor; a satirical vein.
Veined (imp. & p. p.) of Vein
Veining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vein
Vein (v. t.) To form or mark with veins; to fill or cover with veins.
Veinal (a.) Pertaining to veins; venous.
Veined (a.) Full of veins; streaked; variegated; as, veined marble.
Veined (a.) Having fibrovascular threads extending throughout the lamina; as, a veined leaf.
Veinless (a.) Having no veins; as, a veinless leaf.
Veinlet (n.) A small vein.
Veinous (a.) Marked with veins; veined; veiny.
Veinstone (n.) The nonmetalliferous mineral or rock material which accompanies the ores in a vein, as quartz, calcite, barite, fluor spar, etc.; -- called also veinstuff.
Veiny (a.) Full of veins; veinous; veined; as, veiny marble.
Velar (a.) Of or pertaining to a velum; esp. (Anat.) of or pertaining to the soft palate.
Velar (a.) Having the place of articulation on the soft palate; guttural; as, the velar consonants, such as k and hard q.
Velaria (pl. ) of Velarium
Velarium (n.) The marginal membrane of certain medusae belonging to the Discophora.
Velate (a.) Having a veil; veiled.
Vele (n.) A veil.
Velella (n.) Any species of oceanic Siphonophora belonging to the genus Velella.
Veliferous (a.) Carrying or bearing sails.
Veliger (n.) Any larval gastropod or bivalve mollusk in the state when it is furnished with one or two ciliated membranes for swimming.
Velitation (n.) A dispute or contest; a slight contest; a skirmish.
Velivolant (a.) Flying with sails; passing under full sail.
Vell (n.) The salted stomach of a calf, used in making cheese; a rennet bag.
Vell (n.) To cut the turf from, as for burning.
Velleity (n.) The lowest degree of desire; imperfect or incomplete volition.
Vellet (n.) Velvet.
Vellicated (imp. & p. p.) of Vellicate
Vellicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vellicate
Vellicate (v. t.) To twitch; to cause to twitch convulsively.
Vellicate (v. i.) To move spasmodically; to twitch; as, a nerve vellicates.
Vellication () The act of twitching, or of causing to twitch.
Vellication () A local twitching, or convulsive motion, of a muscular fiber, especially of the face.
Vellicative (a.) Having the power of vellicating, plucking, or twitching; causing vellication.
Vellon (n.) A word occurring in the phrase real vellon. See the Note under Its Real.
Vellum (n.) A fine kind of parchment, usually made from calfskin, and rendered clear and white, -- used as for writing upon, and for binding books.
Vellumy (a.) Resembling vellum.
Velocimeter (n.) An apparatus for measuring speed, as of machinery or vessels, but especially of projectiles.
Velocipede (n.) A light road carriage propelled by the feet of the rider. Originally it was propelled by striking the tips of the toes on the roadway, but commonly now by the action of the feet on a pedal or pedals connected with the axle of one or more of the wheels, and causing their revolution. They are made in many forms, with two, three, or four wheels. See Bicycle, and Tricycle.
Velecipedist (n.) One who rides on a velocipede.
Velocities (pl. ) of Velocity
Velocity (n.) Quickness of motion; swiftness; speed; celerity; rapidity; as, the velocity of wind; the velocity of a planet or comet in its orbit or course; the velocity of a cannon ball; the velocity of light.
Velocity (n.) Rate of motion; the relation of motion to time, measured by the number of units of space passed over by a moving body or point in a unit of time, usually the number of feet passed over in a second. See the Note under Speed.
Velours (n.) One of many textile fabrics having a pile like that of velvet.
Veltfare (n.) The fieldfare.
Vela (pl. ) of Velum
Velum (n.) Curtain or covering; -- applied to various membranous partitions, especially to the soft palate. See under Palate.
Velum (n.) See Veil, n., 3 (b).
Velum (n.) A thin membrane surrounding the sporocarps of quillworts Isoetes).
Velum (n.) A veil-like organ or part.
Velum (n.) The circular membrane that partially incloses the space beneath the umbrella of hydroid medusae.
Velum (n.) A delicate funnel-like membrane around the flagellum of certain Infusoria. See Illust. a of Protozoa.
Velure (n.) Velvet.
Velutina (n.) Any one of several species of marine gastropods belonging to Velutina and allied genera.
Velutinous (a.) Having the surface covered with a fine and dense silky pubescence; velvety; as, a velutinous leaf.
Velverd (n.) The veltfare.
Velveret (n.) A kind of velvet having cotton back.
Velvet (n.) A silk fabric, having a short, close nap of erect threads. Inferior qualities are made with a silk pile on a cotton or linen back.
Velvet (n.) The soft and highly vascular deciduous skin which envelops and nourishes the antlers of deer during their rapid growth.
Velvet (a.) Made of velvet; soft and delicate, like velvet; velvety.
Velvet (v. i.) To pain velvet.
Velvet (v. t.) To make like, or cover with, velvet.
Velvetbreast (n.) The goosander.
Velveteen (n.) A kind of cloth, usually cotton, made in imitation of velvet; cotton velvet.
Velveting (n.) The fine shag or nap of velvet; a piece of velvet; velvet goods.
Velvetleaf (n.) A name given to several plants which have soft, velvety leaves, as the Abutilon Avicennae, the Cissampelos Pareira, and the Lavatera arborea, and even the common mullein.
Velvety (a.) Made of velvet, or like velvet; soft; smooth; delicate.
Venae (pl. ) of Vena
Vena (n.) A vein.
Venae cavae (pl. ) of Vena
VenAe portae (pl. ) of Vena
Venada (N.) The pudu.
Venal (a.) Of or pertaining to veins; venous; as, venal blood.
Venal (a.) Capable of being bought or obtained for money or other valuable consideration; made matter of trade or barter; held for sale; salable; mercenary; purchasable; hireling; as, venal services.
Venality (n.) The quality or state of being venal, or purchasable; mercenariness; prostitution of talents, offices, or services, for money or reward; as, the venality of a corrupt court; the venality of an official.
Venally (adv.) In a venal manner.
Venantes (n. pl.) The hunting spiders, which run after, or leap upon, their prey.
Venary (a.) Of or, pertaining to hunting.
Venatic (a.) Alt. of Venatical
Venatical (a.) Of or pertaining to hunting; used in hunting.
Venatica (n.) See Vinatico.
Venation (n.) The arrangement or system of veins, as in the wing of an insect, or in the leaves of a plant. See Illust. in Appendix.
Venation (n.) The act or art of hunting, or the state of being hunted.
Venatorial (a.) Or or pertaining to hunting; venatic.
Vended (imp. & p. p.) of Vend
Vending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vend
Vend (v. t.) To transfer to another person for a pecuniary equivalent; to make an object of trade; to dispose of by sale; to sell; as, to vend goods; to vend vegetables.
Vend (n.) The act of vending or selling; a sale.
Vend (n.) The total sales of coal from a colliery.
Vendace (n.) A European lake whitefish (Coregonus Willughbii, or C. Vandesius) native of certain lakes in Scotland and England. It is regarded as a delicate food fish. Called also vendis.
Vendee (n.) The person to whom a thing is vended, or sold; -- the correlative of vendor.
Vendemiaire (n.) The first month of the French republican calendar, dating from September 22, 1792.
Vender (n.) One who vends; one who transfers the exclusive right of possessing a thing, either his own, or that of another as his agent, for a price or pecuniary equivalent; a seller; a vendor.
Vendetta (n.) A blood feud; private revenge for the murder of a kinsman.
Vendibility (n.) The quality or state of being vendible, or salable.
Vendible (a.) Capable of being vended, or sold; that may be sold; salable.
Vendible (n.) Something to be sold, or offered for sale.
Venditate (v. t.) To cry up. as if for sale; to blazon.
Venditation (n.) The act of setting forth ostentatiously; a boastful display.
Vendition (n.) The act of vending, or selling; sale.
Vendor (n.) A vender; a seller; the correlative of vendee.
Vends (n. pl.) See Wends.
Vendue (n.) A public sale of anything, by outcry, to the highest bidder; an auction.
Veneered (imp. & p. p.) of Veneer
Veneering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Veneer
Veneer (v. t.) To overlay or plate with a thin layer of wood or other material for outer finish or decoration; as, to veneer a piece of furniture with mahogany. Used also figuratively.
Veneer (v. t.) A thin leaf or layer of a more valuable or beautiful material for overlaying an inferior one, especially such a thin leaf of wood to be glued to a cheaper wood; hence, external show; gloss; false pretense.
Veneering (n.) The act or art of one who veneers.
Veneering (n.) Thin wood or other material used as a veneer.
Venefical (a.) Veneficial.
Venefice (n.) The act or practice of poisoning.
Veneficial (a.) Alt. of Veneficious
Veneficious (a.) Acting by poison; used in poisoning or in sorcery.
Venemous (a.) Venomous.
Venenate (v. t.) To poison; to infect with poison.
Venenate (a.) Poisoned.
Vennation (n.) The act of poisoning.
Vennation (n.) Poison; venom.
Venene (a.) Poisonous; venomous.
Venenose (a.) Poisonous.
Venerability (n.) The quality or state of being venerable; venerableness.
Venerable (a.) Capable of being venerated; worthy of veneration or reverence; deserving of honor and respect; -- generally implying an advanced age; as, a venerable magistrate; a venerable parent.
Venerable (a.) Rendered sacred by religious or other associations; that should be regarded with awe and treated with reverence; as, the venerable walls of a temple or a church.
Veneracea (n. pl.) An extensive tribe of bivalve mollusks of which the genus Venus is the type. The shells are usually oval, or somewhat heartshaped, with a conspicuous lunule. See Venus.
Venerated (imp. & p. p.) of Venerate
Venerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Venerate
Venerate (v. t.) To regard with reverential respect; to honor with mingled respect and awe; to reverence; to revere; as, we venerate parents and elders.
Veneration (n.) The act of venerating, or the state of being venerated; the highest degree of respect and reverence; respect mingled with awe; a feeling or sentimental excited by the dignity, wisdom, or superiority of a person, by sacredness of character, by consecration to sacred services, or by hallowed associations.
Venerator (n.) One who venerates.
Venereal (a.) Of or pertaining to venery, or sexual love; relating to sexual intercourse.
Venereal (a.) Arising from sexual intercourse; as, a venereal disease; venereal virus or poison.
Venereal (a.) Adapted to the cure of venereal diseases; as, venereal medicines.
Venereal (a.) Adapted to excite venereal desire; aphrodisiac.
Venereal (a.) Consisting of, or pertaining to, copper, formerly called by chemists Venus.
Venereal (n.) The venereal disease; syphilis.
Venerean (a.) Devoted to the offices of Venus, or love; venereal.
Venereous (a.) Venereal; exciting lust; aphrodisiac.
Venereous (a.) Lustful; lascivious; libidinous.
Venerous (a.) Venereous.
Venery (n.) Sexual love; sexual intercourse; coition.
Venery (n.) The art, act, or practice of hunting; the sports of the chase.
Venesection (n.) The act or operation of opening a vein for letting blood; bloodletting; phlebotomy.
Venetian (a.) Of or pertaining to Venice in Italy.
Venetian (n.) A native or inhabitant of Venice.
Venew (n.) A bout, or turn, as at fencing; a thrust; a hit; a veney.
Veney (n.) A bout; a thrust; a venew.
Venge (v. t.) To avenge; to punish; to revenge.
Vengeable (a.) Revengeful; deserving revenge.
Vengeance (n.) Punishment inflicted in return for an injury or an offense; retribution; -- often, in a bad sense, passionate or unrestrained revenge.
Vengeance (n.) Harm; mischief.
Vengeancely (adv.) Extremely; excessively.
Vengeful (a.) Vindictive; retributive; revengeful.
Vengement (n.) Avengement; penal retribution; vengeance.
Venger (n.) An avenger.
Veniable (a.) Venial; pardonable.
Venial (a.) Capable of being forgiven; not heinous; excusable; pardonable; as, a venial fault or transgression.
Venial (a.) Allowed; permitted.
Veniality (n.) The quality or state of being venial; venialness.
Venire facias () A judicial writ or precept directed to the sheriff, requiring him to cause a certain number of qualified persons to appear in court at a specified time, to serve as jurors in said court.
Venire facias () A writ in the nature of a summons to cause the party indicted on a penal statute to appear. Called also venire.
Venison (n.) Beasts of the chase.
Venison (n.) Formerly, the flesh of any of the edible beasts of the chase, also of game birds; now, the flesh of animals of the deer kind exclusively.
Venite (n.) The 95th Psalm, which is said or sung regularly in the public worship of many churches. Also, a musical composition adapted to this Psalm.
Venom (n.) Matter fatal or injurious to life; poison; particularly, the poisonous, the poisonous matter which certain animals, such as serpents, scorpions, bees, etc., secrete in a state of health, and communicate by thing or stinging.
Venom (n.) Spite; malice; malignity; evil quality. Chaucer.
Venom (n.) To infect with venom; to envenom; to poison.
Venomous (a.) Full of venom; noxious to animal life; poisonous; as, the bite of a serpent may be venomous.
Venomous (a.) Having a poison gland or glands for the secretion of venom, as certain serpents and insects.
Venomous (a.) Noxious; mischievous; malignant; spiteful; as, a venomous progeny; a venomous writer.
Venose (a.) Having numerous or conspicuous veins; veiny; as, a venose frond.
Venosity (n.) The quality or state of being venous.
Venosity (n.) A condition in which the circulation is retarded, and the entire mass of blood is less oxygenated than it normally is.
Venous (a.) Of or pertaining to a vein or veins; as, the venous circulation of the blood.
Venous (a.) Contained in the veins, or having the same qualities as if contained in the veins, that is, having a dark bluish color and containing an insufficient amount of oxygen so as no longer to be fit for oxygenating the tissues; -- said of the blood, and opposed to arterial.
Venous (a.) Marked with veins; veined; as, a venous leaf.
Vent (n.) Sale; opportunity to sell; market.
Vent (v. t.) To sell; to vend.
Vent (n.) A baiting place; an inn.
Vent (v. i.) To snuff; to breathe or puff out; to snort.
Vent (n.) A small aperture; a hole or passage for air or any fluid to escape; as, the vent of a cask; the vent of a mold; a volcanic vent.
Vent (n.) The anal opening of certain invertebrates and fishes; also, the external cloacal opening of reptiles, birds, amphibians, and many fishes.
Vent (n.) The opening at the breech of a firearm, through which fire is communicated to the powder of the charge; touchhole.
Vent (n.) Sectional area of the passage for gases divided by the length of the same passage in feet.
Vent (n.) Fig.: Opportunity of escape or passage from confinement or privacy; outlet.
Vent (n.) Emission; escape; passage to notice or expression; publication; utterance.
Vented (imp. & p. p.) of Vent
Venting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vent
Vent (v. t.) To let out at a vent, or small aperture; to give passage or outlet to.
Vent (v. t.) To suffer to escape from confinement; to let out; to utter; to pour forth; as, to vent passion or complaint.
Vent (v. t.) To utter; to report; to publish.
Vent (v. t.) To scent, as a hound.
Vent (v. t.) To furnish with a vent; to make a vent in; as, to vent. a mold.
Ventage (n.) A small hole, as the stop in a flute; a vent.
Ventail (n.) That part of a helmet which is intended for the admission of air, -- sometimes in the visor.
Venter (n.) One who vents; one who utters, reports, or publishes.
Venter (n.) The belly; the abdomen; -- sometimes applied to any large cavity containing viscera.
Venter (n.) The uterus, or womb.
Venter (n.) A belly, or protuberant part; a broad surface; as, the venter of a muscle; the venter, or anterior surface, of the scapula.
Venter (n.) The lower part of the abdomen in insects.
Venter (n.) A pregnant woman; a mother; as, A has a son B by one venter, and a daughter C by another venter; children by different venters.
Venthole (n.) A touchhole; a vent.
Ventiduct (n.) A passage for wind or air; a passage or pipe for ventilating apartments.
Ventilated (imp. & p. p.) of Ventilate
Ventilating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ventilate
Ventilate (v. t.) To open and expose to the free passage of air; to supply with fresh air, and remove impure air from; to air; as, to ventilate a room; to ventilate a cellar; to ventilate a mine.
Ventilate (v. t.) To provide with a vent, or escape, for air, gas, etc.; as, to ventilate a mold, or a water-wheel bucket.
Ventilate (v. t.) To change or renew, as the air of a room.
Ventilate (v. t.) To winnow; to fan; as, to ventilate wheat.
Ventilate (v. t.) To sift and examine; to bring out, and subject to penetrating scrutiny; to expose to examination and discussion; as, to ventilate questions of policy.
Ventilate (v. t.) To give vent; to utter; to make public.
Ventilation (n.) The act of ventilating, or the state of being ventilated; the art or process of replacing foul air by that which is pure, in any inclosed place, as a house, a church, a mine, etc.; free exposure to air.
Ventilation (n.) The act of refrigerating, or cooling; refrigeration; as, ventilation of the blood.
Ventilation (n.) The act of fanning, or winnowing, for the purpose of separating chaff and dust from the grain.
Ventilation (n.) The act of sifting, and bringing out to view or examination; free discussion; public exposure.
Ventilation (n.) The act of giving vent or expression.
Ventilative (a.) Of or pertaining to ventilation; adapted to secure ventilation; ventilating; as, ventilative apparatus.
Ventilator (n.) A contrivance for effecting ventilation; especially, a contrivance or machine for drawing off or expelling foul or stagnant air from any place or apartment, or for introducing that which is fresh and pure.
Ventose (n.) A ventouse.
Ventose (a.) Windy; flatulent.
Ventose (a.) The sixth month of the calendar adopted by the first French republic. It began February 19, and ended March 20. See Vend/miaire.
Ventosity (n.) Quality or state of being ventose; windiness; hence, vainglory; pride.
Ventouse (n.) A cupping glass.
Ventouse (v. t. & i.) To cup; to use a cupping glass.
Ventrad (adv.) Toward the ventral side; on the ventral side; ventrally; -- opposed to dorsad.
Ventral (a.) Of, pertaining to, or situated near, the belly, or ventral side, of an animal or of one of its parts; hemal; abdominal; as, the ventral fin of a fish; the ventral root of a spinal nerve; -- opposed to dorsal.
Ventral (a.) Of or pertaining to that surface of a carpel, petal, etc., which faces toward the center of a flower.
Ventral (a.) Of or pertaining to the lower side or surface of a creeping moss or other low flowerless plant. Opposed to dorsal.
Ventricle (n.) A cavity, or one of the cavities, of an organ, as of the larynx or the brain; specifically, the posterior chamber, or one of the two posterior chambers, of the heart, which receives the blood from the auricle and forces it out from the heart. See Heart.
Ventricle (n.) The stomach.
Ventricle (n.) Fig.: Any cavity, or hollow place, in which any function may be conceived of as operating.
Ventricose (a.) Alt. of Ventricous
Ventricous (a.) Swelling out on one side or unequally; bellied; ventricular; as, a ventricose corolla.
Ventricular (a.) Of or pertaining to a ventricle; bellied.
Ventriculite (n.) Any one of numerous species of siliceous fossil sponges belonging to Ventriculites and allied genera, characteristic of the Cretaceous period.
Ventriculous (a.) Somewhat distended in the middle; ventricular.
Ventriculi (pl. ) of Ventriculus
Ventriculus (n.) One of the stomachs of certain insects.
Ventriculus (n.) The body cavity of a sponge.
Ventrilocution (n.) Ventriloquism.
Ventriloquial (a.) Ventriloquous.
Ventriloquism (n.) The act, art, or practice of speaking in such a manner that the voice appears to come, not from the person speaking, but from some other source, as from the opposite side of the room, from the cellar, etc.
Ventriloquist (n.) One who practices, or is skilled in, ventriloquism.
Ventriloquized (imp. & p. p.) of Ventriloquize
Ventriloquizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ventriloquize
Ventriloquize (v. i.) To practice ventriloquism; to speak like a ventriloquist.
Ventriloquous (a.) Of or pertaining to a ventriloquist or ventriloquism.
Ventriloquy (n.) Same as Ventriloquism.
Ventrimeson (n.) See Meson.
Ventro- () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the abdomen; also, connection with, relation to, or direction toward, the ventral side; as, ventrolateral; ventro-inguinal.
Ventro-inguinal (a.) Pertaining both to the abdomen and groin, or to the abdomen and inguinal canal; as, ventro-inguinal hernia.
Venture (n.) An undertaking of chance or danger; the risking of something upon an event which can not be foreseen with certainty; a hazard; a risk; a speculation.
Venture (n.) An event that is not, or can not be, foreseen; an accident; chance; hap; contingency; luck.
Venture (n.) The thing put to hazard; a stake; a risk; especially, something sent to sea in trade.
Ventured (imp. & p. p.) of Venture
Venturing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Venture
Venture (v. i.) To hazard one's self; to have the courage or presumption to do, undertake, or say something; to dare.
Venture (v. i.) To make a venture; to run a hazard or risk; to take the chances.
Venture (v. t.) To expose to hazard; to risk; to hazard; as, to venture one's person in a balloon.
Venture (v. t.) To put or send on a venture or chance; as, to venture a horse to the West Indies.
Venture (v. t.) To confide in; to rely on; to trust.
Venturer (n.) One who ventures, or puts to hazard; an adventurer.
Venturer (n.) A strumpet; a prostitute.
Venturesome (a.) Inclined to venture; not loth to run risk or danger; venturous; bold; daring; adventurous; as, a venturesome boy or act.
Venturine (n.) Gold powder for covering varnished surfaces.
Venturous (n.) Daring; bold; hardy; fearless; venturesome; adveturous; as, a venturous soldier.
Ventuse (v. t. & i.) See Ventouse.
Venue (n.) A neighborhood or near place; the place or county in which anything is alleged to have happened; also, the place where an action is laid.
Venue (n.) A bout; a hit; a turn. See Venew.
Venule (n.) A small vein; a veinlet; specifically (Zool.), one of the small branches of the veins of the wings in insects.
Venulose (a.) Full of venules, or small veins.
Venus (n.) The goddess of beauty and love, that is, beauty or love deified.
Venus (n.) One of the planets, the second in order from the sun, its orbit lying between that of Mercury and that of the Earth, at a mean distance from the sun of about 67,000,000 miles. Its diameter is 7,700 miles, and its sidereal period 224.7 days. As the morning star, it was called by the ancients Lucifer; as the evening star, Hesperus.
Venus (n.) The metal copper; -- probably so designated from the ancient use of the metal in making mirrors, a mirror being still the astronomical symbol of the planet Venus.
Venus (n.) Any one of numerous species of marine bivalve shells of the genus Venus or family Veneridae. Many of these shells are large, and ornamented with beautiful frills; others are smooth, glossy, and handsomely colored. Some of the larger species, as the round clam, or quahog, are valued for food.
Venust (a.) Beautiful.
Veracious (a.) Observant of truth; habitually speaking truth; truthful; as, veracious historian.
Veracious (a.) Characterized by truth; not false; as, a veracious account or narrative.
Veraciously (adv.) In a veracious manner.
Veracity (n.) The quality or state of being veracious; habitual observance of truth; truthfulness; truth; as, a man of veracity.
Veranda (n.) An open, roofed gallery or portico, adjoining a dwelling house, forming an out-of-door sitting room. See Loggia.
Veratralbine (n.) A yellowish amorphous alkaloid extracted from the rootstock of Veratrum album.
Veratrate (n.) A salt of veratric acid.
Veratria (n.) Veratrine.
Veratric (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, plants of the genus Veratrum.
Veratrina (n.) Same as Veratrine.
Veratrine (n.) A poisonous alkaloid obtained from the root hellebore (Veratrum) and from sabadilla seeds as a white crystalline powder, having an acrid, burning taste. It is sometimes used externally, as in ointments, in the local treatment of neuralgia and rheumatism. Called also veratria, and veratrina.
Veratrol (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon obtained by the decomposition of veratric acid, and constituting the dimethyl ether of pyrocatechin.
Veratrum (n.) A genus of coarse liliaceous herbs having very poisonous qualities.
Verb (n.) A word; a vocable.
Verb (n.) A word which affirms or predicates something of some person or thing; a part of speech expressing being, action, or the suffering of action.
Verbal (a.) Expressed in words, whether spoken or written, but commonly in spoken words; hence, spoken; oral; not written; as, a verbal contract; verbal testimony.
Verbal (a.) Consisting in, or having to do with, words only; dealing with words rather than with the ideas intended to be conveyed; as, a verbal critic; a verbal change.
Verbal (a.) Having word answering to word; word for word; literal; as, a verbal translation.
Verbal (a.) Abounding with words; verbose.
Verbal (a.) Of or pertaining to a verb; as, a verbal group; derived directly from a verb; as, a verbal noun; used in forming verbs; as, a verbal prefix.
Verbal (n.) A noun derived from a verb.
Verbalism (n.) Something expressed verbally; a verbal remark or expression.
Verbalist (n.) A literal adherent to, or a minute critic of, words; a literalist.
Verbality (n.) The quality or state of being verbal; mere words; bare literal expression.
Verbalization (n.) The act of verbalizing, or the state of being verbalized.
Verbalized (imp. & p. p.) of Verbalize
Verbalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Verbalize
Verbalize (v. t.) To convert into a verb; to verbify.
Verbalize (v. i.) To be verbose.
Verbally (adv.) In a verbal manner; orally.
Verbally (adv.) Word for word; verbatim.
Verbarian (a.) Of or pertaining to words; verbal.
Verbarian (n.) One who coins words.
Verbarium (n.) A game in word making. See Logomachy, 2.
Verbatim (adv.) Word for word; in the same words; verbally; as, to tell a story verbatim as another has related it.
Verbena (n.) A genus of herbaceous plants of which several species are extensively cultivated for the great beauty of their flowers; vervain.
Verbenaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order (Verbenaceae) of gamopetalous plants of which Verbena is the type. The order includes also the black and white mangroves, and many plants noted for medicinal use or for beauty of bloom.
Verbenated (imp. & p. p.) of Verbenate
Verbenating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Verbenate
Verbenate (v. t.) To strew with verbena, or vervain, as in ancient sacrifices and rites.
Verberate (v. t.) To beat; to strike.
Verberation (n.) The act of verberating; a beating or striking.
Verberation (n.) The impulse of a body; which causes sound.
Verbiage (n.) The use of many words without necessity, or with little sense; a superabundance of words; verbosity; wordiness.
Verify (v. t.) To make into a verb; to use as a verb; to verbalize.
Verbose (a.) Abounding in words; using or containing more words than are necessary; tedious by a multiplicity of words; prolix; wordy; as, a verbose speaker; a verbose argument.
Verbosities (pl. ) of Verbosity
Verbosity (n.) The quality or state of being verbose; the use of more words than are necessary; prolixity; wordiness; verbiage.
Verd (n.) The privilege of cutting green wood within a forest for fuel.
Verd (n.) The right of pasturing animals in a forest.
Verd (n.) Greenness; freshness.
Verdancy (n.) The quality or state of being verdant.
Verdant (a.) Covered with growing plants or grass; green; fresh; flourishing; as, verdant fields; a verdant lawn.
Verdant (a.) Unripe in knowledge or judgment; unsophisticated; raw; green; as, a verdant youth.
Verd antique () A mottled-green serpentine marble.
Verd antique () A green porphyry called oriental verd antique.
Verdantly (adv.) In a verdant manner.
Verderer (n.) Alt. of Verderor
Verderor (n.) An officer who has the charge of the king's forest, to preserve the vert and venison, keep the assizes, view, receive, and enroll attachments and presentments of all manner of trespasses.
Verdict (n.) The answer of a jury given to the court concerning any matter of fact in any cause, civil or criminal, committed to their examination and determination; the finding or decision of a jury on the matter legally submitted to them in the course of the trial of a cause.
Verdict (n.) Decision; judgment; opinion pronounced; as, to be condemned by the verdict of the public.
Verdigris (n.) A green poisonous substance used as a pigment and drug, obtained by the action of acetic acid on copper, and consisting essentially of a complex mixture of several basic copper acetates.
Verdigris (n.) The green rust formed on copper.
Verdigris (v. t.) To cover, or coat, with verdigris.
Verdin (n.) A small yellow-headed bird (Auriparus flaviceps) of Lower California, allied to the titmice; -- called also goldtit.
Verdine (n.) A commercial name for green aniline dye.
Verdingale (n.) See Farthingale.
Verdit (n.) Verdict.
Verditer (n.) Verdigris.
Verditer (n.) Either one of two pigments (called blue verditer, and green verditer) which are made by treating copper nitrate with calcium carbonate (in the form of lime, whiting, chalk, etc.) They consist of hydrated copper carbonates analogous to the minerals azurite and malachite.
Verditure (n.) The faintest and palest green.
Verdoy (a.) Charged with leaves, fruits, flowers, etc.; -- said of a border.
Verdure (n.) Green; greenness; freshness of vegetation; as, the verdure of the meadows in June.
Verdured (a.) Covered with verdure.
Verdureless (a.) Destitute of verdure.
Verdurous (a.) Covered with verdure; clothed with the fresh green of vegetation; verdured; verdant; as, verdurous pastures.
Verecund (a.) Rashful; modest.
Verecundious (a.) Verecund.
Verecundity (n.) The quality or state of being verecund; modesty.
Veretillum (n.) Any one of numerous species of club-shaped, compound Alcyonaria belonging to Veretillum and allied genera, of the tribe Pennatulacea. The whole colony can move about as if it were a simple animal.
Vergalien (n.) Alt. of Vergaloo
Vergaloo (n.) See Virgalieu.
Verge (n.) A rod or staff, carried as an emblem of authority; as, the verge, carried before a dean.
Verge (n.) The stick or wand with which persons were formerly admitted tenants, they holding it in the hand, and swearing fealty to the lord. Such tenants were called tenants by the verge.
Verge (n.) The compass of the court of Marshalsea and the Palace court, within which the lord steward and the marshal of the king's household had special jurisdiction; -- so called from the verge, or staff, which the marshal bore.
Verge (n.) A virgate; a yardland.
Verge (n.) A border, limit, or boundary of a space; an edge, margin, or brink of something definite in extent.
Verge (n.) A circumference; a circle; a ring.
Verge (n.) The shaft of a column, or a small ornamental shaft.
Verge (n.) The edge of the tiling projecting over the gable of a roof.
Verge (n.) The spindle of a watch balance, especially one with pallets, as in the old vertical escapement. See under Escapement.
Verge (n.) The edge or outside of a bed or border.
Verge (n.) A slip of grass adjoining gravel walks, and dividing them from the borders in a parterre.
Verge (n.) The penis.
Verge (n.) The external male organ of certain mollusks, worms, etc. See Illustration in Appendix.
Verged (imp. & p. p.) of Verge
Verging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Verge
Verge (v. i.) To border upon; to tend; to incline; to come near; to approach.
Verge (v. i.) To tend downward; to bend; to slope; as, a hill verges to the north.
Vergeboard (n.) The ornament of woodwork upon the gable of a house, used extensively in the 15th century. It was generally suspended from the edge of the projecting roof (see Verge, n., 4), and in position parallel to the gable wall. Called also bargeboard.
Vergency (n.) The act of verging or approaching; tendency; approach.
Vergency (n.) The reciprocal of the focal distance of a lens, used as measure of the divergence or convergence of a pencil of rays.
Verger (n.) One who carries a verge, or emblem of office.
Verger (n.) An attendant upon a dignitary, as on a bishop, a dean, a justice, etc.
Verger (n.) The official who takes care of the interior of a church building.
Verger (n.) A garden or orchard.
Vergette (a.) Divided by pallets, or pales; paly.
Vergette (n.) A small pale.
Veridical (a.) Truth-telling; truthful; veracious.
Verifiable (a.) Capable of being verified; confirmable.
Verfication (n.) The act of verifying, or the state of being verified; confirmation; authentication.
Verfication (n.) Confirmation by evidence.
Verfication (n.) A formal phrase used in concluding a plea.
Verificative (a.) Serving to verify; verifying; authenciating; confirming.
Verifier (n.) One who, or that which, verifies.
Verified (imp. & p. p.) of Verify
Verifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Verify
Verify (v. t.) To prove to be true or correct; to establish the truth of; to confirm; to substantiate.
Verify (v. t.) To confirm or establish the authenticity of by examination or competent evidence; to authenciate; as, to verify a written statement; to verify an account, a pleading, or the like.
Verify (v. t.) To maintain; to affirm; to support.
Veriloquent (a.) Speaking truth; truthful.
Verily (adv.) In very truth; beyond doubt or question; in fact; certainly.
Verine (n.) An alkaloid obtained as a yellow amorphous substance by the decomposition of veratrine.
Verisimilar (a.) Having the appearance of truth; probable; likely.
Verisimilitude (n.) The quality or state of being verisimilar; the appearance of truth; probability; likelihood.
Verisimility (n.) Verisimilitude.
Versimilous (a.) Verisimilar.
Veritable (a.) Agreeable to truth or to fact; actual; real; true; genuine.
Veritas (n.) The Bureau Veritas. See under Bureau.
Verities (pl. ) of Verity
Verity (n.) The quality or state of being true, or real; consonance of a statement, proposition, or other thing, with fact; truth; reality.
Verity (n.) That which is true; a true assertion or tenet; a truth; a reality.
Verjuice (n.) The sour juice of crab apples, of green or unripe grapes, apples, etc.; also, an acid liquor made from such juice.
Verjuice (n.) Tartness; sourness, as of disposition.
Vermeil (n.) Vermilion; also, the color of vermilion, a bright, beautiful red.
Vermeil (n.) Silver gilt or gilt bronze.
Vermeil (n.) A liquid composition applied to a gilded surface to give luster to the gold.
Vermeologist (n.) One who treats of vermes, or worms; a helminthologist.
Vermeology (n.) A discourse or treatise on worms; that part of zoology which treats of worms; helminthology.
Vermes (n. pl.) An extensive artificial division of the animal kingdom, including the parasitic worms, or helminths, together with the nemerteans, annelids, and allied groups. By some writers the branchiopods, the bryzoans, and the tunicates are also included. The name was used in a still wider sense by Linnaeus and his followers.
Vermes (n. pl.) A more restricted group, comprising only the helminths and closely allied orders.
Vermetid (n.) Any species of vermetus.
Vermetus (n.) Any one of many species of marine gastropods belonging to Vermetus and allied genera, of the family Vermetidae. Their shells are regularly spiral when young, but later in life the whorls become separate, and the shell is often irregularly bent and contorted like a worm tube.
Vermicelli (n.) The flour of a hard and small-grained wheat made into dough, and forced through small cylinders or pipes till it takes a slender, wormlike form, whence the Italian name. When the paste is made in larger tubes, it is called macaroni.
Vermicide (n.) A medicine which destroys intestinal worms; a worm killer.
Vermicious (a.) Of or pertaining to worms; wormy.
Vermicular (a.) Of or pertaining to a worm or worms; resembling a worm; shaped like a worm; especially, resembling the motion or track of a worm; as, the vermicular, or peristaltic, motion of the intestines. See Peristaltic.
Vermiculated (imp. & p. p.) of Vermiculate
Vermiculating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vermiculate
Vermiculate (v. t.) To form or work, as by inlaying, with irregular lines or impressions resembling the tracks of worms, or appearing as if formed by the motion of worms.
Vermiculate (a.) Wormlike in shape; covered with wormlike elevations; marked with irregular fine lines of color, or with irregular wavy impressed lines like worm tracks; as, a vermiculate nut.
Vermiculate (a.) Crawling or creeping like a worm; hence, insinuating; sophistical.
Vermiculated (a.) Made or marked with irregular wavy lines or impressions; vermiculate.
Vermiculation (n.) The act or operation of moving in the manner of a worm; continuation of motion from one part to another; as, the vermiculation, or peristaltic motion, of the intestines.
Vermiculation (n.) The act of vermiculating, or forming or inlaying so as to resemble the motion, track, or work of a worm.
Vermiculation (n.) Penetration by worms; the state of being wormeaten.
Vermiculation (n.) A very fine wavy crosswise color marking, or a patch of such markings, as on the feathers of birds.
Vermicule (n.) A small worm or insect larva; also, a wormlike body.
Vermiculite (n.) A group of minerals having, a micaceous structure. They are hydrous silicates, derived generally from the alteration of some kind of mica. So called because the scales, when heated, open out into wormlike forms.
Vermiculose (a.) Alt. of Vermiculous
Vermiculous (a.) Containing, or full of, worms; resembling worms.
Vermiform (a.) Resembling a worm in form or motions; vermicular; as, the vermiform process of the cerebellum.
Vermiformia (n. pl.) A tribe of worms including Phoronis. See Phoronis.
Vermifugal (a.) Tending to prevent, destroy, or expel, worms or vermin; anthelmintic.
Vermifuge (n.) A medicine or substance that expels worms from animal bodies; an anthelmintic.
Vermil (n.) See Vermeil.
Vermilinguia (n. pl.) A tribe of edentates comprising the South American ant-eaters. The tongue is long, slender, exsertile, and very flexible, whence the name.
Vermilinguia (n. pl.) A tribe of Old World lizards which comprises the chameleon. They have long, flexible tongues.
Vermilion (n.) A bright red pigment consisting of mercuric sulphide, obtained either from the mineral cinnabar or artificially. It has a fine red color, and is much used in coloring sealing wax, in printing, etc.
Vermilion (n.) Hence, a red color like the pigment; a lively and brilliant red; as, cheeks of vermilion.
Vermilion (v. t.) To color with vermilion, or as if with vermilion; to dye red; to cover with a delicate red.
Vermily (n.) Vermeil.
Vermin (n. sing. & pl.) An animal, in general.
Vermin (n. sing. & pl.) A noxious or mischievous animal; especially, noxious little animals or insects, collectively, as squirrels, rats, mice, flies, lice, bugs, etc.
Vermin (n. sing. & pl.) Hence, in contempt, noxious human beings.
Verminate (v. i.) To breed vermin.
Vermination (n.) The generation or breeding of vermin.
Vermination (n.) A griping of the bowels.
Verminly (a. & adv.) Resembling vermin; in the manner of vermin.
Verminous (a.) Tending to breed vermin; infested by vermin.
Verminous (a.) Caused by, or arising from the presence of, vermin; as, verminous disease.
Verminously (adv.) In a verminous manner.
Vermiparous (a.) Producing or breeding worms.
Vermivorous (a.) Devouring worms; feeding on worms; as, vermivorous birds.
Vermuth (n.) A liqueur made of white wine, absinthe, and various aromatic drugs, used to excite the appetite.
Vernacle (n.) See Veronica, 1.
Vernacular (a.) Belonging to the country of one's birth; one's own by birth or nature; native; indigenous; -- now used chiefly of language; as, English is our vernacular language.
Vernacular (n.) The vernacular language; one's mother tongue; often, the common forms of expression in a particular locality.
Vernacularism (n.) A vernacular idiom.
Vernacularization (n.) The act or process of making vernacular, or the state of being made vernacular.
Vernacularly (adv.) In a vernacular manner; in the vernacular.
Vernaculous (a.) Vernacular.
Vernaculous (a.) Scoffing; scurrilous.
Vernage (n.) A kind of sweet wine from Italy.
Vernal (a.) Of or pertaining to the spring; appearing in the spring; as, vernal bloom.
Vernal (a.) Fig.: Belonging to youth, the spring of life.
Vernant (a.) Flourishing, as in spring; vernal.
Vernate (v. i.) To become young again.
Vernation (n.) The arrangement of the leaves within the leaf bud, as regards their folding, coiling, rolling, etc.; prefoliation.
Vernicle (n.) A Veronica. See Veronica, 1.
Vernicose (a.) Having a brilliantly polished surface, as some leaves.
Vernier (n.) A short scale made to slide along the divisions of a graduated instrument, as the limb of a sextant, or the scale of a barometer, for indicating parts of divisions. It is so graduated that a certain convenient number of its divisions are just equal to a certain number, either one less or one more, of the divisions of the instrument, so that parts of a division are determined by observing what line on the vernier coincides with a line on the instrument.
Vernile (a.) Suiting a salve; servile; obsequious.
Vernility (n.) Fawning or obsequious behavior; servility.
Vernine (n.) An alkaloid extracted from the shoots of the vetch, red clover, etc., as a white crystalline substance.
Vernish (n. & v.) Varnish.
Vernonin (n.) A glucoside extracted from the root of a South African plant of the genus Vernonia, as a deliquescent powder, and used as a mild heart tonic.
Veronese (a.) Of or pertaining to Verona, in Italy.
Veronese (n. sing. & pl.) A native of Verona; collectively, the people of Verona.
Veronica (n.) A portrait or representation of the face of our Savior on the alleged handkerchief of Saint Veronica, preserved at Rome; hence, a representation of this portrait, or any similar representation of the face of the Savior. Formerly called also Vernacle, and Vernicle.
Veronica (n.) A genus scrophulariaceous plants; the speedwell. See Speedwell.
Verray (a.) Very; true.
Verrayment (adv.) Verily; truly.
Verrel (n.) See Ferrule.
Verriculate (a.) Having thickset tufts of parallel hairs, bristles, or branches.
Verruciform (a.) Shaped like a wart or warts.
Verrucose (a.) Covered with wartlike elevations; tuberculate; warty; verrucous; as, a verrucose capsule.
Verrucous (a.) Verrucose.
Verruculose (a.) Minutely verrucose; as, a verruculose leaf or stalk.
Vers (n. sing. & pl.) A verse or verses. See Verse.
Versability (n.) The quality or state of being versable.
Versable (a.) Capable of being turned.
Versableness (n.) Versability.
Versal (a.) Universal.
Versant (a.) Familiar; conversant.
Versant (n.) The slope of a side of a mountain chain; hence, the general slope of a country; aspect.
Versatile (a.) Capable of being turned round.
Versatile (a.) Liable to be turned in opinion; changeable; variable; unsteady; inconstant; as versatile disposition.
Versatile (a.) Turning with ease from one thing to another; readily applied to a new task, or to various subjects; many-sided; as, versatile genius; a versatile politician.
Versatile (a.) Capable of turning; freely movable; as, a versatile anther, which is fixed at one point to the filament, and hence is very easily turned around; a versatile toe of a bird.
Versatility (n.) The quality or state of being versatile; versatileness.
Vers de societe () See Society verses, under Society.
Verse (n.) A line consisting of a certain number of metrical feet (see Foot, n., 9) disposed according to metrical rules.
Verse (n.) Metrical arrangement and language; that which is composed in metrical form; versification; poetry.
Verse (n.) A short division of any composition.
Verse (n.) A stanza; a stave; as, a hymn of four verses.
Verse (n.) One of the short divisions of the chapters in the Old and New Testaments.
Verse (n.) A portion of an anthem to be performed by a single voice to each part.
Verse (n.) A piece of poetry.
Versed (imp. & p. p.) of Verse
Versing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Verse
Verse (v. t.) To tell in verse, or poetry.
Verse (v. i.) To make verses; to versify.
Versed (a.) Acquainted or familiar, as the result of experience, study, practice, etc.; skilled; practiced.
Versed (a.) Turned.
Verseman (n.) Same as Versemonger.
Versemonger (n.) A writer of verses; especially, a writer of commonplace poetry; a poetaster; a rhymer; -- used humorously or in contempt.
Verser (n.) A versifier.
Verset (n.) A verse.
Versicle (n.) A little verse; especially, a short verse or text said or sung in public worship by the priest or minister, and followed by a response from the people.
Versicolor (a.) Alt. of Versicolored
Versicolored (a.) Having various colors; changeable in color.
Versicular (a.) Of or pertaining to verses; designating distinct divisions of a writing.
Versification (n.) The act, art, or practice, of versifying, or making verses; the construction of poetry; metrical composition.
Versificator (n.) A versifier.
Versifier (n.) One who versifies, or makes verses; as, not every versifier is a poet.
Versifier (n.) One who converts into verse; one who expresses in verse the ideas of another written in prose; as, Dr. Watts was a versifier of the Psalms.
Versified (imp. & p. p.) of Versify
Versifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Versify
Versify (v. i.) To make verses.
Versify (v. t.) To relate or describe in verse; to compose in verse.
Versify (v. t.) To turn into verse; to render into metrical form; as, to versify the Psalms.
Version (n.) A change of form, direction, or the like; transformation; conversion; turning.
Version (n.) A condition of the uterus in which its axis is deflected from its normal position without being bent upon itself. See Anteversion, and Retroversion.
Version (n.) The act of translating, or rendering, from one language into another language.
Version (n.) A translation; that which is rendered from another language; as, the Common, or Authorized, Version of the Scriptures (see under Authorized); the Septuagint Version of the Old Testament.
Version (n.) An account or description from a particular point of view, especially as contrasted with another account; as, he gave another version of the affair.
Versionist (n.) One who makes or favors a version; a translator.
Verso (n.) The reverse, or left-hand, page of a book or a folded sheet of paper; -- opposed to recto.
Versor (n.) The turning factor of a quaternion.
Verst (n.) A Russian measure of length containing 3,500 English feet.
Versual (a.) Of or pertaining to a verse.
Versus (prep.) Against; as, John Doe versus Richard Roe; -- chiefly used in legal language, and abbreviated to v. or vs.
Versute (a.) Crafty; wily; cunning; artful.
Vert (n.) Everything that grows, and bears a green leaf, within the forest; as, to preserve vert and venison is the duty of the verderer.
Vert (n.) The right or privilege of cutting growing wood.
Vert (n.) The color green, represented in a drawing or engraving by parallel lines sloping downward toward the right.
Verteber (n.) A vertebra.
Vertebrae (pl. ) of Vertebra
Vertebra (n.) One of the serial segments of the spinal column.
Vertebra (n.) One of the central ossicles in each joint of the arms of an ophiuran.
Vertebral (a.) Of or pertaining to a vertebrae, or the vertebral column; spinal; rachidian.
Vertebral (a.) Vertebrate.
Vertebral (n.) A vertebrate.
Vertebrally (adv.) At or within a vertebra or vertebrae; -- distinguished from interverterbrally.
Vertebrarterial (a.) Of or pertaining to a vertebrae and an artery; -- said of the foramina in the transverse processes of cervical vertebrae and of the canal which they form for the vertebral artery and vein.
Vertebrata (n. pl.) One of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom, comprising all animals that have a backbone composed of bony or cartilaginous vertebrae, together with Amphioxus in which the backbone is represented by a simple undivided notochord. The Vertebrata always have a dorsal, or neural, cavity above the notochord or backbone, and a ventral, or visceral, cavity below it. The subdivisions or classes of Vertebrata are Mammalia, Aves, Reptilia, Amphibia, Pisces, Marsipobranchia, and Leptocardia.
Vertebrate (n.) One of the Vertebrata.
Vertebrate (a.) Alt. of Vertebrated
Vertebrated (a.) Having a backbone, or vertebral column, containing the spinal marrow, as man, quadrupeds, birds, amphibia, and fishes.
Vertebrated (a.) Contracted at intervals, so as to resemble the spine in animals.
Vertebrated (a.) Having movable joints resembling vertebrae; -- said of the arms ophiurans.
Vertebrated (a.) Of or pertaining to the Vertebrata; -- used only in the form vertebrate.
Vertebre (n.) A vertebra.
Vertebro- () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, a vertebra, vertebrae, or vertebral column; as in vertebrocostal.
Vertebro-iliac (a.) Iliolumbar.
Vertexes (pl. ) of Vertex
Vertices (pl. ) of Vertex
Vertex (n.) A turning point; the principal or highest point; top; summit; crown; apex.
Vertex (n.) The top, or crown, of the head.
Vertex (n.) The zenith, or the point of the heavens directly overhead.
Vertex (n.) The point in any figure opposite to, and farthest from, the base; the terminating point of some particular line or lines in a figure or a curve; the top, or the point opposite the base.
Vertical (a.) Of or pertaining to the vertex; situated at the vertex, or highest point; directly overhead, or in the zenith; perpendicularly above one.
Vertical (a.) Perpendicular to the plane of the horizon; upright; plumb; as, a vertical line.
Vertical (n.) Vertical position; zenith.
Vertical (n.) A vertical line, plane, or circle.
Verticality (n.) The quality or state of being vertical; verticalness.
Vertically (adv.) In a vertical manner, position, or direction; perpendicularly; as, to look down vertically; to raise a thing vertically.
Verticalness (n.) Quality or state of being vertical.
Verticil (n.) A circle either of leaves or flowers about a stem at the same node; a whorl.
Verticillaster (a.) A whorl of flowers apparently of one cluster, but composed of two opposite axillary cymes, as in mint. See Illust. of Whorl.
Verticillate (a.) Alt. of Verticillated
Verticillated (a.) Arranged in a transverse whorl or whorls like the rays of a wheel; as, verticillate leaves of a plant; a verticillate shell.
Verticillus (n.) A whorl; a verticil.
Verticity (n.) The quality or power of turning; revolution; rotation.
Verticle (n.) An axis; hinge; a turning point.
Vertiginate (a.) Turned round; giddy.
Vertiginous (a.) Turning round; whirling; rotary; revolving; as, vertiginous motion.
Vertiginous (a.) Affected with vertigo; giddy; dizzy.
Vertigoes (pl. ) of Vertigo
Vertigines (pl. ) of Vertigo
Vertigo (n.) Dizziness or swimming of the head; an affection of the head in which objects, though stationary, appear to move in various directions, and the person affected finds it difficult to maintain an erect posture; giddiness.
Vertigo (n.) Any one of numerous species of small land snails belonging to the genus Vertigo, having an elongated or conical spiral shell and usually teeth in the aperture.
Vertilinear (a.) Straight; rectilinear.
Vertu (n.) Virtue; power. See Virtue.
Vertu (n.) See Virtu.
Vertuous (a.) Virtuous; powerful.
Verumontanum (n.) An elevation, or crest, in the wall of the urethra where the seminal ducts enter it.
Vervain (n.) Any plant of the genus Verbena.
Verve (n.) Excitement of imagination such as animates a poet, artist, or musician, in composing or performing; rapture; enthusiasm; spirit; energy.
Vervel (n.) See Varvel.
Vervet (n.) A South African monkey (Cercopithecus pygerythrus, / Lelandii). The upper parts are grayish green, finely specked with black. The cheeks and belly are reddish white.
Very (v. t.) True; real; actual; veritable.
Very (adv.) In a high degree; to no small extent; exceedingly; excessively; extremely; as, a very great mountain; a very bright sum; a very cold day; the river flows very rapidly; he was very much hurt.
Vesbium (n.) A rare metallic element of which little is known. It is said by Scacchi to have been extracted from a yellowish incrustation from the cracks of a Vesuvian lava erupted in 1631.
Vese (n.) Onset; rush; violent draught or wind.
Vesica (n.) A bladder.
Vesical (a.) Of or pertaining to the bladder.
Vesicant (n.) A vesicatory.
Vesicated (imp. & p. p.) of Vesicate
Vesicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vesicate
Vesicate (v. t.) To raise little bladders or blisters upon; to inflame and separate the cuticle of; to blister.
Vesication (n.) The process of vesicating, or of raising blisters.
Vesicatory (a.) Tending, or having power, to raise a blister.
Vesicatory (n.) A blistering application or plaster; a vesicant; an epispastic.
Vesicle (n.) A bladderlike vessel; a membranous cavity; a cyst; a cell.
Vesicle (n.) A small bladderlike body in the substance of vegetable, or upon the surface of a leaf.
Vesicle (n.) A small, and more or less circular, elevation of the cuticle, containing a clear watery fluid.
Vesicle (n.) A cavity or sac, especially one filled with fluid; as, the umbilical vesicle.
Vesicle (n.) A small convex hollow prominence on the surface of a shell or a coral.
Vesicle (n.) A small cavity, nearly spherical in form, and usually of the size of a pea or smaller, such as are common in some volcanic rocks. They are produced by the liberation of watery vapor in the molten mass.
Vesico- () A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the bladder; as in vesicoprostatic, vesicovaginal.
Vesicoprostatic (a.) Of a pertaining to the bladder and the prostrate gland.
Vesicouterine (a.) Of or pertaining to the bladder and the uterus.
Vesicovaginal (a.) Of or pertaining to the bladder and the vagina.
Vesiculae (pl. ) of Vesicula
Vesicula (n.) A vesicle.
Vesicular (a.) Of or pertaining to vesicles; esp., of or pertaining to the air vesicles, or air cells, of the lungs; as, vesicular breathing, or normal breathing, in which the air enters freely the air vesicles of the lungs.
Vesicular (a.) Containing, or composed of, vesicles or vesiclelike structures; covered with vesicles or bladders; vesiculate; as, vesicular coral; vesicular lava; a vesicular leaf.
Vesicular (a.) Having the form or structure of a vesicle; as, a vesicular body.
Vesicularia (n.) Any one of numerous species of marine Bryozoa belonging to Vesicularia and allied genera. They have delicate tubular cells attached in clusters to slender flexible stems.
Vesiculata (n. pl.) The campanularian medusae.
Vesiculate (a.) Bladdery; full of, or covered with, bladders; vesicular.
Vesiculate (v. t.) To form vesicles in, as lava.
Vesiculation (n.) The state of containing vesicles, or the process by which vesicles are formed.
Vesiculose (a.) Alt. of Vesiculous
Vesiculous (a.) Bladdery; vesicular; vesiculate; composed of vesicles; covered with vesicles; as, a vesiculose shell.
Vespa (n.) A genus of Hymenoptera including the common wasps and hornets.
Vesper (n.) The evening star; Hesper; Venus, when seen after sunset; hence, the evening.
Vesper (a.) Of or pertaining to the evening, or to the service of vespers; as, a vesper hymn; vesper bells.
Vesperal (a.) Vesper; evening.
Vespers (n.) One of the little hours of the Breviary.
Vespers (n.) The evening song or service.
Vespertilio (n.) A genus of bats including some of the common small insectivorous species of North America and Europe.
Vespertiliones (n. pl.) A tribe of bats including the common insectivorous bats of America and Europe, belonging to Vespertilio and allied genera. They lack a nose membrane.
Vespertilionine (a.) Of or pertaining to the Vespertiliones.
Vespertinal (a.) Vespertine.
Vespertine (a.) Of or pertaining to the evening; happening or being in the evening.
Vespertine (a.) Blossoming in the evening.
Vespiary (n.) A nest, or habitation, of insects of the wasp kind.
Vespilloes (pl. ) of Vespillo
Vespillo (n.) One who carried out the dead bodies of the poor at night for burial.
Vessel (n.) A hollow or concave utensil for holding anything; a hollow receptacle of any kind, as a hogshead, a barrel, a firkin, a bottle, a kettle, a cup, a bowl, etc.
Vessel (n.) A general name for any hollow structure made to float upon the water for purposes of navigation; especially, one that is larger than a common rowboat; as, a war vessel; a passenger vessel.
Vessel (n.) Fig.: A person regarded as receiving or containing something; esp. (Script.), one into whom something is conceived as poured, or in whom something is stored for use; as, vessels of wrath or mercy.
Vessel (n.) Any tube or canal in which the blood or other fluids are contained, secreted, or circulated, as the arteries, veins, lymphatics, etc.
Vessel (n.) A continuous tube formed from superposed large cylindrical or prismatic cells (tracheae), which have lost their intervening partitions, and are usually marked with dots, pits, rings, or spirals by internal deposition of secondary membranes; a duct.
Vessel (v. t.) To put into a vessel.
Vesselfuls (pl. ) of Vesselful
Vesselful (n.) As much as a vessel will hold; enough to fill a vessel.
Vesses (n.) Alt. of Vessets
Vessets (n.) A kind of worsted; also, a worsted cloth.
Vessicnon (n.) Alt. of Vessignon
Vessignon (n.) A soft swelling on a horse's leg; a windgall.
Vest (n.) An article of clothing covering the person; an outer garment; a vestment; a dress; a vesture; a robe.
Vest (n.) Any outer covering; array; garb.
Vest (n.) Specifically, a waistcoat, or sleeveless body garment, for men, worn under the coat.
Vested (imp. & p. p.) of Vest
Vesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vest
Vest (n.) To clothe with, or as with, a vestment, or garment; to dress; to robe; to cover, surround, or encompass closely.
Vest (n.) To clothe with authority, power, or the like; to put in possession; to invest; to furnish; to endow; -- followed by with before the thing conferred; as, to vest a court with power to try cases of life and death.
Vest (n.) To place or give into the possession or discretion of some person or authority; to commit to another; -- with in before the possessor; as, the power of life and death is vested in the king, or in the courts.
Vest (n.) To invest; to put; as, to vest money in goods, land, or houses.
Vest (n.) To clothe with possession; as, to vest a person with an estate; also, to give a person an immediate fixed right of present or future enjoyment of; as, an estate is vested in possession.
Vest (v. i.) To come or descend; to be fixed; to take effect, as a title or right; -- followed by in; as, upon the death of the ancestor, the estate, or the right to the estate, vests in the heir at law.
Vesta (n.) One of the great divinities of the ancient Romans, identical with the Greek Hestia. She was a virgin, and the goddess of the hearth; hence, also, of the fire on it, and the family round it.
Vesta (n.) An asteroid, or minor planet, discovered by Olbers in 1807.
Vesta (n.) A wax friction match.
Vestal (a.) Of or pertaining to Vesta, the virgin goddess of the hearth; hence, pure; chaste.
Vestal (a.) A virgin consecrated to Vesta, and to the service of watching the sacred fire, which was to be perpetually kept burning upon her altar.
Vestal (a.) A virgin; a woman pure and chaste; also, a nun.
Vestales (n. pl.) A group of butterflies including those known as virgins, or gossamer-winged butterflies.
Vested (a.) Clothed; robed; wearing vestments.
Vested (a.) Not in a state of contingency or suspension; fixed; as, vested rights; vested interests.
Vestiarian (a.) Of or pertaining to a vestiary or vestments.
Vestiary (n.) A wardrobe; a robing room; a vestry.
Vestiary (a.) Pertaining to clothes, or vestments.
Vestibular (a.) Of or pertaining to a vestibule; like a vestibule.
Vestibule (n.) The porch or entrance into a house; a hall or antechamber next the entrance; a lobby; a porch; a hall.
Vestibula (pl. ) of Vestibulum
Vestibulum (n.) A cavity into which, in certain bryozoans, the esophagus and anus open.
Vestigate (v. t.) To investigate.
Vestige (n.) The mark of the foot left on the earth; a track or footstep; a trace; a sign; hence, a faint mark or visible sign left by something which is lost, or has perished, or is no longer present; remains; as, the vestiges of ancient magnificence in Palmyra; vestiges of former population.
Vestigial (a.) Of or pertaining to a vestige or remnant; like a vestige.
Vesting (n.) Cloth for vests; a vest pattern.
Vestiture (n.) In vestiture.
Vestlet (n.) Any one of several species of actinians belonging to the genus Cerianthus. These animals have a long, smooth body tapering to the base, and two separate circles of tentacles around the mouth. They form a tough, flexible, feltlike tube with a smooth internal lining, in which they dwell, whence the name.
Vestment (n.) A covering or garment; some part of clothing or dress
Vestment (n.) any priestly garment.
Vestries (pl. ) of Vestry
Vestry (n.) A room appendant to a church, in which sacerdotal vestments and sacred utensils are sometimes kept, and where meetings for worship or parish business are held; a sacristy; -- formerly called revestiary.
Vestry (n.) A parochial assembly; an assembly of persons who manage parochial affairs; -- so called because usually held in a vestry.
Vestry (n.) A body, composed of wardens and vestrymen, chosen annually by a parish to manage its temporal concerns.
Vestrymen (pl. ) of Vestryman
Vestryman (n.) A member of a vestry; especially (Prot. Epis. Ch.), a member other than a warden. See Vestry.
Vesture (v. t.) A garment or garments; a robe; clothing; dress; apparel; vestment; covering; envelope.
Vesture (v. t.) The corn, grass, underwood, stubble, etc., with which land was covered; as, the vesture of an acre.
Vesture (v. t.) Seizin; possession.
Vestured (a.) Covered with vesture or garments; clothed; enveloped.
Vesuvian (a.) Of or pertaining to Vesuvius, a volcano near Naples.
Vesuvian (a.) Vesuvianite.
Vesuvianite (n.) A mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals, and also massive, of a brown to green color, rarely sulphur yellow and blue. It is a silicate of alumina and lime with some iron magnesia, and is common at Vesuvius. Also called idocrase.
Vesuvine (n.) A trade name for a brown dyestuff obtained from certain basic azo compounds of benzene; -- called also Bismarck brown, Manchester brown, etc.
Vetch (n.) Any leguminous plant of the genus Vicia, some species of which are valuable for fodder. The common species is V. sativa.
Vetchling (n.) Any small leguminous plant of the genus Lathyrus, especially L. Nissolia.
Vetchy (a.) Consisting of vetches or of pea straw.
Vetchy (a.) Abounding with vetches.
Veteran (a.) Long exercised in anything, especially in military life and the duties of a soldier; long practiced or experienced; as, a veteran officer or soldier; veteran skill.
Veteran (n.) One who has been long exercised in any service or art, particularly in war; one who has had.
Veteranize (v. i.) To reenlist for service as a soldier.
Veterinarian (n.) One skilled in the diseases of cattle or domestic animals; a veterinary surgeon.
Veterinary (a.) Of or pertaining to the art of healing or treating the diseases of domestic animals, as oxen, horses, sheep, etc.; as, a veterinary writer or school.
Vetiver (n.) An East Indian grass (Andropogon muricatus); also, its fragrant roots which are much used for making mats and screens. Also called kuskus, and khuskhus.
Vetoes (pl. ) of Veto
Veto (n.) An authoritative prohibition or negative; a forbidding; an interdiction.
Veto (n.) A power or right possessed by one department of government to forbid or prohibit the carrying out of projects attempted by another department; especially, in a constitutional government, a power vested in the chief executive to prevent the enactment of measures passed by the legislature. Such a power may be absolute, as in the case of the Tribunes of the People in ancient Rome, or limited, as in the case of the President of the United States. Called also the veto power.
Veto (n.) The exercise of such authority; an act of prohibition or prevention; as, a veto is probable if the bill passes.
Veto (n.) A document or message communicating the reasons of the executive for not officially approving a proposed law; -- called also veto message.
Vetoed (imp. & p. p.) of Veto
Vetoing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Veto
Veto (v. t.) To prohibit; to negative; also, to refuse assent to, as a legislative bill, and thus prevent its enactment; as, to veto an appropriation bill.
Vetoist (n.) One who uses, or sustains the use of, the veto.
Vetture (pl. ) of Vettura
Vettura (n.) An Italian four-wheeled carriage, esp. one let for hire; a hackney coach.
Vetturini (pl. ) of Vetturino
Vetturino (n.) One who lets or drives a vettura.
Vetturino (n.) A vettura.
Vetust (a.) Venerable from antiquity; ancient; old.
Vexed (imp. & p. p.) of Vex
Vexing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vex
Vex (v. t.) To to/s back and forth; to agitate; to disquiet.
Vex (v. t.) To make angry or annoyed by little provocations; to irritate; to plague; to torment; to harass; to afflict; to trouble; to tease.
Vex (v. t.) To twist; to weave.
Vex (v. i.) To be irritated; to fret.
Vexation (n.) The act of vexing, or the state of being vexed; agitation; disquiet; trouble; irritation.
Vexation (n.) The cause of trouble or disquiet; affliction.
Vexation (n.) A harassing by process of law; a vexing or troubling, as by a malicious suit.
Vexatious (a.) Causing vexation; agitating; afflictive; annoying; as, a vexatious controversy; a vexatious neighbor.
Vexatious (a.) Full or vexation, trouble, or disquiet; disturbed.
Vexed (a.) Annoyed; harassed; troubled.
Vexed (a.) Much debated or contested; causing discussion; as, a vexed question.
Vexer (n.) One who vexes or troubles.
Vexil (n.) A vexillum.
Vexillar () Alt. of Vexillary
Vexillary () Of or pertaining to an ensign or standard.
Vexillary () Of or pertaining to the vexillum, or upper petal of papilionaceous flowers.
Vexillary (n.) A standard bearer.
Vexillation (n.) A company of troops under one vexillum.
Vexilla (pl. ) of Vexillum
Vexillum (n.) A flag or standard.
Vexillum (n.) A company of troops serving under one standard.
Vexillum (n.) A banner.
Vexillum (n.) The sign of the cross.
Vexillum (n.) The upper petal of a papilionaceous flower; the standard.
Vexillum (n.) The rhachis and web of a feather taken together; the vane.
Vexingly (adv.) In a vexing manner; so as to vex, tease, or irritate.
V hook () A gab at the end of an eccentric rod, with long jaws, shaped like the letter V.
Via (n.) A road way.
Via (prep.) By the way of; as, to send a letter via Queenstown to London.
Viability (n.) The quality or state of being viable.
Viability (n.) The capacity of living after birth.
Viability (n.) The capacity of living, or being distributed, over wide geographical limits; as, the viability of a species.
Viable (a.) Capable of living; born alive and with such form and development of organs as to be capable of living; -- said of a newborn, or a prematurely born, infant.
Viaduct (n.) A structure of considerable magnitude, usually with arches or supported on trestles, for carrying a road, as a railroad, high above the ground or water; a bridge; especially, one for crossing a valley or a gorge. Cf. Trestlework.
Viage (n.) A voyage; a journey.
Vial (n.) A small bottle, usually of glass; a little glass vessel with a narrow aperture intended to be closed with a stopper; as, a vial of medicine.
Vialed (imp. & p. p.) of Vial
Vialled () of Vial
Vialing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vial
Vialling () of Vial
Vial (v. t.) To put in a vial or vials.
Viameter (n.) An odometer; -- called also viatometer.
Viand (n.) An article of food; provisions; food; victuals; -- used chiefly in the plural.
Viander (n.) A feeder; an eater; also, one who provides viands, or food; a host.
Vi-apple (n.) See Otaheite apple.
Viary (a.) Of or pertaining to roads; happening on roads.
Viatecture (n.) The art of making roads or ways for traveling, including the construction of bridges, canals, viaducts, etc.
Viatic (a.) Of or pertaining to a journey or traveling.
Viaticum (n.) An allowance for traveling expenses made to those who were sent into the provinces to exercise any office or perform any service.
Viaticum (n.) Provisions for a journey.
Viaticum (n.) The communion, or eucharist, when given to persons in danger of death.
Viatometer (n.) A viameter.
Vibices (n. pl.) More or less extensive patches of subcutaneous extravasation of blood.
Vibracula (pl. ) of Vibraculum
Vibraculum (n.) One of the movable, slender, spinelike organs or parts with which certain bryozoans are furnished. They are regarded as specially modified zooids, of nearly the same nature as Avicularia.
Vibrancy (n.) The state of being vibrant; resonance.
Vibrant (a.) Vibrating; tremulous; resonant; as, vibrant drums.
Vibrate (imp. & p. p.) of Vibrate
Vibrating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vibrate
Vibrate (v. t.) To brandish; to move to and fro; to swing; as, to vibrate a sword or a staff.
Vibrate (v. t.) To mark or measure by moving to and fro; as, a pendulum vibrating seconds.
Vibrate (v. t.) To affect with vibratory motion; to set in vibration.
Vibrate (v. i.) To move to and fro, or from side to side, as a pendulum, an elastic rod, or a stretched string, when disturbed from its position of rest; to swing; to oscillate.
Vibrate (v. i.) To have the constituent particles move to and fro, with alternate compression and dilation of parts, as the air, or any elastic body; to quiver.
Vibrate (v. i.) To produce an oscillating or quivering effect of sound; as, a whisper vibrates on the ear.
Vibrate (v. i.) To pass from one state to another; to waver; to fluctuate; as, a man vibrates between two opinions.
Vibratile (a.) Adapted to, or used in, vibratory motion; having the power of vibrating; vibratory; as, the vibratile organs of insects.
Vibratility (n.) The quality or state of being vibratile; disposition to vibration or oscillation.
Vibration (n.) The act of vibrating, or the state of being vibrated, or in vibratory motion; quick motion to and fro; oscillation, as of a pendulum or musical string.
Vibration (n.) A limited reciprocating motion of a particle of an elastic body or medium in alternately opposite directions from its position of equilibrium, when that equilibrium has been disturbed, as when a stretched cord or other body produces musical notes, or particles of air transmit sounds to the ear. The path of the particle may be in a straight line, in a circular arc, or in any curve whatever.
Vibratiuncle (a.) A small vibration.
Vibrative (a. Vibrating) ; vibratory.
Vibratory (a.) Consisting in, or causing, vibration, or oscillation; vibrating; as, a vibratory motion; a vibratory power.
Vibrios (pl. ) of Vibrio
Vibriones (pl. ) of Vibrio
Vibrio (n.) A genus of motile bacteria characterized by short, slightly sinuous filaments and an undulatory motion; also, an individual of this genus.
Vibrissae (pl. ) of Vibrissa
Vibrissa (n.) One of the specialized or tactile hairs which grow about the nostrils, or on other parts of the face, in many animals, as the so-called whiskers of the cat, and the hairs of the nostrils of man.
Vibrissa (n.) The bristlelike feathers near the mouth of many birds.
Vibroscope (n.) An instrument for observing or tracing vibrations.
Vibroscope (n.) An instrument resembling the phenakistoscope.
Viburnum (n.) A genus of shrubs having opposite, petiolate leaves and cymose flowers, several species of which are cultivated as ornamental, as the laurestine and the guelder-rose.
Vicar (n.) One deputed or authorized to perform the functions of another; a substitute in office; a deputy.
Vicar (n.) The incumbent of an appropriated benefice.
Vicarage (n.) The benefice of a vicar.
Vicarage (n.) The house or residence of a vicar.
Vicarial (a.) Of or pertaining to a vicar; as, vicarial tithes.
Vicarial (a.) Delegated; vicarious; as, vicarial power.
Vicarian (n.) A vicar.
Vicariate (a.) Having delegated power, as a vicar; vicarious.
Vicariate (n.) Delegated office or power; vicarship; the office or oversight of a vicar.
Vicarious (prep.) Of or pertaining to a vicar, substitute, or deputy; deputed; delegated; as, vicarious power or authority.
Vicarious (prep.) Acting of suffering for another; as, a vicarious agent or officer.
Vicarious (prep.) Performed of suffered in the place of another; substituted; as, a vicarious sacrifice; vicarious punishment.
Vicarious (prep.) Acting as a substitute; -- said of abnormal action which replaces a suppressed normal function; as, vicarious hemorrhage replacing menstruation.
Vicariously (adv.) In a vicarious manner.
Vicarship (n.) The office or dignity of a vicar.
Vicary (n.) A vicar.
Vice (n.) A defect; a fault; an error; a blemish; an imperfection; as, the vices of a political constitution; the vices of a horse.
Vice (n.) A moral fault or failing; especially, immoral conduct or habit, as in the indulgence of degrading appetites; customary deviation in a single respect, or in general, from a right standard, implying a defect of natural character, or the result of training and habits; a harmful custom; immorality; depravity; wickedness; as, a life of vice; the vice of intemperance.
Vice (n.) The buffoon of the old English moralities, or moral dramas, having the name sometimes of one vice, sometimes of another, or of Vice itself; -- called also Iniquity.
Vice (n.) A kind of instrument for holding work, as in filing. Same as Vise.
Vice (n.) A tool for drawing lead into cames, or flat grooved rods, for casements.
Vice (n.) A gripe or grasp.
Viced (imp. & p. p.) of Vice
Vicing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vice
Vice (v. t.) To hold or squeeze with a vice, or as if with a vice.
Vice (prep.) In the place of; in the stead; as, A. B. was appointed postmaster vice C. D. resigned.
Vice (prep.) Denoting one who in certain cases may assume the office or duties of a superior; designating an officer or an office that is second in rank or authority; as, vice president; vice agent; vice consul, etc.
Viced (a.) Vicious; corrupt.
Vicegerency (n.) The office of a vicegerent.
Vicegerent (a.) Having or exercising delegated power; acting by substitution, or in the place of another.
Vicegerent (a.) Having or exercising delegated power; acting by substitution, or in the place of another.
Vicegerent (n.) An officer who is deputed by a superior, or by proper authority, to exercise the powers of another; a lieutenant; a vicar.
Vicemen (pl. ) of Viceman
Viceman (n.) A smith who works at the vice instead of at the anvil.
Vicenary (a.) Of or pertaining to twenty; consisting of twenty.
Vicennial (a.) Lasting or comprising twenty years.
Vicennial (a.) Happening once in twenty years; as, a vicennial celebration.
Vice-regal (a.) Of or pertaining to a viceroy or viceroyalty.
Viceroy (prep.) The governor of a country or province who rules in the name of the sovereign with regal authority, as the king's substitute; as, the viceroy of India.
Viceroy (prep.) A large and handsome American butterfly (Basilarchia, / Limenitis, archippus). Its wings are orange-red, with black lines along the nervures and a row of white spots along the outer margins. The larvae feed on willow, poplar, and apple trees.
Viceroyalty (n.) The dignity, office, or jurisdiction of a viceroy.
Viceroyship (n.) Viceroyalty.
Vicety (n.) Fault; defect; coarseness.
Vichy water () A mineral water found at Vichy, France. It is essentially an effervescent solution of sodium, calcium, and magnetism carbonates, with sodium and potassium chlorides; also, by extension, any artificial or natural water resembling in composition the Vichy water proper. Called also, colloquially, Vichy.
Viciate (v. t.) See Vitiate.
Viinage (n.) The place or places adjoining or near; neighborhood; vicinity; as, a jury must be of the vicinage.
Vicinal (a.) Near; vicine.
Vicine (a.) Near; neighboring; vicinal.
Vicine (n.) An alkaloid ex tracted from the seeds of the vetch (Vicia sativa) as a white crystalline substance.
Vicinity (n.) The quality or state of being near, or not remote; nearness; propinquity; proximity; as, the value of the estate was increased by the vicinity of two country seats.
Vicinity (n.) That which is near, or not remote; that which is adjacent to anything; adjoining space or country; neighborhood.
Viciosity (n.) Vitiosity.
Vicious (a.) Characterized by vice or defects; defective; faulty; imperfect.
Vicious (a.) Addicted to vice; corrupt in principles or conduct; depraved; wicked; as, vicious children; vicious examples; vicious conduct.
Vicious (a.) Wanting purity; foul; bad; noxious; as, vicious air, water, etc.
Vicious (a.) Not correct or pure; corrupt; as, vicious language; vicious idioms.
Vicious (a.) Not well tamed or broken; given to bad tricks; unruly; refractory; as, a vicious horse.
Vicious (a.) Bitter; spiteful; malignant.
Vicissitude (n.) Regular change or succession from one thing to another; alternation; mutual succession; interchange.
Vicissitude (n.) Irregular change; revolution; mutation.
Vicissitudinary (a.) Subject to vicissitudes.
Vicissitudinous (a.) Full of, or subject to, changes.
Vicissy duck () A West Indian duck, sometimes domesticated.
Vicontiel (a.) Of or pertaining to the viscount or sheriff of a country.
Vicontiels (n. pl.) Things belonging to the sheriff; especially, farms (called also vicontiel rents) for which the sheriff used to pay rent to the king.
Vicount (n.) See Viscount.
Victim (n.) A living being sacrificed to some deity, or in the performance of a religious rite; a creature immolated, or made an offering of.
Victim (n.) A person or thing destroyed or sacrificed in the pursuit of an object, or in gratification of a passion; as, a victim to jealousy, lust, or ambition.
Victim (n.) A person or living creature destroyed by, or suffering grievous injury from, another, from fortune or from accident; as, the victim of a defaulter; the victim of a railroad accident.
Victim (n.) Hence, one who is duped, or cheated; a dupe; a gull.
Victimate (v. t.) To make a victim of; to sacrifice; to immolate.
Victimized (imp. & p. p.) of Victimize
Victimizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Victimize
Victimize (v. t.) To make a victim of, esp. by deception; to dupe; to cheat.
Victor (n.) The winner in a contest; one who gets the better of another in any struggle; esp., one who defeats an enemy in battle; a vanquisher; a conqueror; -- often followed by art, rarely by of.
Victor (n.) A destroyer.
Victor (a.) Victorious.
Victoress (n.) A victress.
Victoria (n.) A genus of aquatic plants named in honor of Queen Victoria. The Victoria regia is a native of Guiana and Brazil. Its large, spreading leaves are often over five feet in diameter, and have a rim from three to five inches high; its immense rose-white flowers sometimes attain a diameter of nearly two feet.
Victoria (n.) A kind of low four-wheeled pleasure carriage, with a calash top, designed for two persons and the driver who occupies a high seat in front.
Victoria (n.) An asteroid discovered by Hind in 1850; -- called also Clio.
Victorian (a.) Of or pertaining to the reign of Queen Victoria of England; as, the Victorian poets.
Victorine (n.) A woman's fur tippet.
Victorious (a.) Of or pertaining to victory, or a victor' being a victor; bringing or causing a victory; conquering; winning; triumphant; as, a victorious general; victorious troops; a victorious day.
Victories (pl. ) of Victory
Victory (n.) The defeat of an enemy in battle, or of an antagonist in any contest; a gaining of the superiority in any struggle or competition; conquest; triumph; -- the opposite of defeat.
Victress (n.) A woman who wins a victory; a female victor.
Victrice (n.) A victress.
Victrix (n.) Victress.
Victual (n.) Food; -- now used chiefly in the plural. See Victuals.
Victual (n.) Grain of any kind.
Victualed (imp. & p. p.) of Victual
Victualled () of Victual
Victualing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Victual
Victualling () of Victual
Victual (v. t.) To supply with provisions for subsistence; to provide with food; to store with sustenance; as, to victual an army; to victual a ship.
Victualage (n.) Victuals; food.
Victualer (n.) One who furnishes victuals.
Victualer (n.) One who keeps a house of entertainment; a tavern keeper; an innkeeper.
Victualer (n.) A vessel employed to carry provisions, usually for military or naval use; a provision use; a provision ship.
Victualer (n.) One who deals in grain; a corn factor.
Victualing (a.) Of or pertaining to victuals, or provisions; supplying provisions; as, a victualing ship.
Victuals (n. pl.) Food for human beings, esp. when it is cooked or prepared for the table; that which supports human life; provisions; sustenance; meat; viands.
Victus (n.) Food; diet.
Vicua (n.) Alt. of Vicugna
Vicugna (n.) A South American mammal (Auchenia vicunna) native of the elevated plains of the Andes, allied to the llama but smaller. It has a thick coat of very fine reddish brown wool, and long, pendent white hair on the breast and belly. It is hunted for its wool and flesh.
Vida finch () The whidah bird.
Vidame (n.) One of a class of temporal officers who originally represented the bishops, but later erected their offices into fiefs, and became feudal nobles.
Vide () imperative sing. of L. videre, to see; -- used to direct attention to something; as, vide supra, see above.
Videlicet (adv.) To wit; namely; -- often abbreviated to viz.
Vidette (n.) Same Vedette.
Vidonia (n.) A dry white wine, of a tart flavor, produced in Teneriffe; -- called also Teneriffe.
Viduage (n.) The state of widows or of widowhood; also, widows, collectively.
Vidual (a.) Of or pertaining to the state of a widow; widowed.
Viduation (n.) The state of being widowed or bereaved; loss; bereavement.
Viduity (n.) Widowhood.
Vied (imp. & p. p.) of Vie
Vying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vie
Vie (v. i.) To stake a sum upon a hand of cards, as in the old game of gleek. See Revie.
Vie (v. i.) To strive for superiority; to contend; to use emulous effort, as in a race, contest, or competition.
Vie (v. t.) To stake; to wager.
Vie (v. t.) To do or produce in emulation, competition, or rivalry; to put in competition; to bandy.
Vie (n.) A contest for superiority; competition; rivalry; strife; also, a challenge; a wager.
Vielle (n.) An old stringed instrument played upon with a wheel; a hurdy-gurdy.
Vienna paste () A caustic application made up of equal parts of caustic potash and quicklime; -- called also Vienna caustic.
Viennese (a.) Of or pertaining to Vienna, or people of Vienna.
Viennese (n. sing. & pl.) An inhabitant, or the inhabitants, of Vienna.
View (n.) The act of seeing or beholding; sight; look; survey; examination by the eye; inspection.
View (n.) Mental survey; intellectual perception or examination; as, a just view of the arguments or facts in a case.
View (n.) Power of seeing, either physically or mentally; reach or range of sight; extent of prospect.
View (n.) That which is seen or beheld; sight presented to the natural or intellectual eye; scene; prospect; as, the view from a window.
View (n.) The pictorial representation of a scene; a sketch, /ither drawn or painted; as, a fine view of Lake George.
View (n.) Mode of looking at anything; manner of apprehension; conception; opinion; judgment; as, to state one's views of the policy which ought to be pursued.
View (n.) That which is looked towards, or kept in sight, as object, aim, intention, purpose, design; as, he did it with a view of escaping.
View (n.) Appearance; show; aspect.
Viewed (imp. & p. p.) of View
Viewing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of View
View (v. t.) To see; to behold; especially, to look at with attention, or for the purpose of examining; to examine with the eye; to inspect; to explore.
View (v. t.) To survey or examine mentally; to consider; as, to view the subject in all its aspects.
Viewer (n.) One who views or examines.
Viewer (n.) A person appointed to inspect highways, fences, or the like, and to report upon the same.
Viewer (n.) The superintendent of a coal mine.
Viewiness (n.) The quality or state of being viewy, or of having unpractical views.
Viewless (a.) Not perceivable by the eye; invisible; unseen.
Viewly (a.) Alt. of Viewsome
Viewsome (a.) Pleasing to the sight; sightly.
Viewy (a.) Having peculiar views; fanciful; visionary; unpractical; as, a viewy person.
Viewy (a.) Spectacular; pleasing to the eye or the imagination.
Vifda (n.) In the Orkney and Shetland Islands, beef and mutton hung and dried, but not salted.
Vigesimal (a.) Twentieth; divided into, or consisting of, twenties or twenty parts.
Vigesimation (n.) The act of putting to death every twentieth man.
Vigesimo-quarto (a.) Having twenty-four leaves to a sheet; as, a vigesimo-quarto form, book, leaf, size, etc.
-tos (pl. ) of Vigesimo-quarto
Vigesimo-quarto (n.) A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into twenty-four leaves; hence, indicating more or less definitely a size of book so made; -- usually written 24mo, or 24.
Vigil (v. i.) Abstinence from sleep, whether at a time when sleep is customary or not; the act of keeping awake, or the state of being awake, or the state of being awake; sleeplessness; wakefulness; watch.
Vigil (v. i.) Hence, devotional watching; waking for prayer, or other religious exercises.
Vigil (v. i.) Originally, the watch kept on the night before a feast.
Vigil (v. i.) Later, the day and the night preceding a feast.
Vigil (v. i.) A religious service performed in the evening preceding a feast.
Vigilance (n.) The quality or state of being vigilant; forbearance of sleep; wakefulness.
Vigilance (n.) Watchfulness in respect of danger; care; caution; circumspection.
Vigilance (n.) Guard; watch.
Vigilancy (n.) Vigilance.
Vigilant (a.) Attentive to discover and avoid danger, or to provide for safety; wakeful; watchful; circumspect; wary.
Vigilantly (adv.) In a vigilant manner.
Vigily (n.) A vigil.
Vigintivirate (n.) The office of the vigintiviri, a body of officers of government consisting of twenty men; also, the vigintiviri.
Vignette (n.) A running ornament consisting of leaves and tendrils, used in Gothic architecture.
Vignette (n.) A decorative design, originally representing vine branches or tendrils, at the head of a chapter, of a manuscript or printed book, or in a similar position; hence, by extension, any small picture in a book; hence, also, as such pictures are often without a definite bounding line, any picture, as an engraving, a photograph, or the like, which vanishes gradually at the edge.
Vignette (v. t.) To make, as an engraving or a photograph, with a border or edge insensibly fading away.
Vigonia (a.) Of or pertaining to the vicu/a; characterizing the vicu/a; -- said of the wool of that animal, used in felting hats, and for other purposes.
Vigor (n.) Active strength or force of body or mind; capacity for exertion, physically, intellectually, or morally; force; energy.
Vigor (n.) Strength or force in animal or force in animal or vegetable nature or action; as, a plant grows with vigor.
Vigor (n.) Strength; efficacy; potency.
Vigor (v. t.) To invigorate.
Vigorite (n.) An explosive containing nitroglycerin. It is used in blasting.
Vigoroso (a. & adv.) Vigorous; energetic; with energy; -- a direction to perform a passage with energy and force.
Vigorous (a.) Possessing vigor; full of physical or mental strength or active force; strong; lusty; robust; as, a vigorous youth; a vigorous plant.
Vigorous (a.) Exhibiting strength, either of body or mind; powerful; strong; forcible; energetic; as, vigorous exertions; a vigorous prosecution of a war.
Viking (n.) One belonging to the pirate crews from among the Northmen, who plundered the coasts of Europe in the eighth, ninth, and tenth centuries.
Vilany (n.) Villainy.
Vilayet (n.) One of the chief administrative divisions or provinces of the Ottoman Empire; -- formerly called eyalet.
Vild (a.) Vile.
Vile (superl.) Low; base; worthless; mean; despicable.
Vile (superl.) Morally base or impure; depraved by sin; hateful; in the sight of God and men; sinful; wicked; bad.
Viled (a.) Abusive; scurrilous; defamatory; vile.
Vileyns (a.) Villainous.
Vilification (n.) The act of vilifying or defaming; abuse.
Vilifier (n.) One who vilifies or defames.
Vilified (imp. & p. p.) of Vilify
Vilifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vilify
Vilify (v. t.) To make vile; to debase; to degrade; to disgrace.
Vilify (v. t.) To degrade or debase by report; to defame; to traduce; to calumniate.
Vilify (v. t.) To treat as vile; to despise.
Vilipend (v. t.) To value lightly; to depreciate; to slight; to despise.
Vilipendency (n.) Disesteem; slight; disparagement.
Vility (n.) Vileness; baseness.
Vill (n.) A small collection of houses; a village.
Villas (pl. ) of Villa
Villa (n.) A country seat; a country or suburban residence of some pretensions to elegance.
Village (n.) A small assemblage of houses in the country, less than a town or city.
Villager (n.) An inhabitant of a village.
Villagery (n.) Villages; a district of villages.
Villain (n.) One who holds lands by a base, or servile, tenure, or in villenage; a feudal tenant of the lowest class, a bondman or servant.
Villain (n.) A baseborn or clownish person; a boor.
Villain (n.) A vile, wicked person; a man extremely depraved, and capable or guilty of great crimes; a deliberate scoundrel; a knave; a rascal; a scamp.
Villain (a.) Villainous.
Villain (v. t.) To debase; to degrade.
Villainous (a.) Base; vile; mean; depraved; as, a villainous person or wretch.
Villainous (a.) Proceeding from, or showing, extreme depravity; suited to a villain; as, a villainous action.
Villainous (a.) Sorry; mean; mischievous; -- in a familiar sense.
Villainies (pl. ) of Villainy
Villainy (n.) The quality or state of being a villain, or villainous; extreme depravity; atrocious wickedness; as, the villainy of the seducer.
Villainy (n.) Abusive, reproachful language; discourteous speech; foul talk.
Villainy (n.) The act of a villain; a deed of deep depravity; a crime.
Villakin (n.) A little villa.
Villan (n.) A villain.
Villanage (n.) The state of a villain, or serf; base servitude; tenure on condition of doing the meanest services for the lord.
Villanage (n.) Baseness; infamy; villainy.
Villanel (n.) A ballad.
Villanelle (pl. ) of Villanella
Villanella (n.) An old rustic dance, accompanied with singing.
Villanelle (n.) A poem written in tercets with but two rhymes, the first and third verse of the first stanza alternating as the third verse in each successive stanza and forming a couplet at the close.
Villanette (n.) A small villa.
Villanized (imp. & p. p.) of Villanize
Villanizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Villanize
Villanize (v. t.) To make vile; to debase; to degrade; to revile.
Villanizer (n.) One who villanizes.
Villanous (n.) Alt. of Villanousness
Villanously (n.) Alt. of Villanousness
Villanousness (n.) See Villainous, etc.
Villany (n.) See Villainy.
Villatic (a.) Of or pertaining to a farm or a village; rural.
Villein (n.) See Villain, 1.
Villenage (n.) Villanage.
Villenous (a.) Of or pertaining to a villein.
Villi (n.) pl. of Villus.
Villiform (a.) Having the form or appearance of villi; like close-set fibers, either hard or soft; as, the teeth of perch are villiform.
Villose (a.) See Villous.
Villosity (n.) State of being villous.
Villosity (n.) A coating of long, slender hairs.
Villosity (n.) A villus.
Villous (a.) Abounding in, or covered with, fine hairs, or a woolly substance; shaggy with soft hairs; nappy.
Villous (a.) Furnished or clothed with villi.
Villi (pl. ) of Villus
Villus (n.) One of the minute papillary processes on certain vascular membranes; a villosity; as, villi cover the lining of the small intestines of many animals and serve to increase the absorbing surface.
Villus (n.) Fine hairs on plants, resembling the pile of velvet.
Vim (n.) Power; force; energy; spirit; activity; vigor.
Vimen (n.) A long, slender, flexible shoot or branch.
Viminal (a.) Of or pertaining to twigs; consisting of twigs; producing twigs.
Vimineous (a.) Of or pertaining to twigs; made of pliant twigs.
Vimineous (a.) Producing long, slender twigs or shoots.
Vinaceous (a.) Belonging to, or like, wine or grapes.
Vinaceous (a.) Of the color of wine, especially of red wine.
Vinaigrette (n.) A sauce, made of vinegar, oil, and other ingredients, -- used esp. for cold meats.
Vinaigrette (n.) A small perforated box for holding aromatic vinegar contained in a sponge, or a smelling bottle for smelling salts; -- called also vinegarette.
Vinaigrette (n.) A small, two-wheeled vehicle, like a Bath chair, to be drawn or pushed by a boy or man.
Vinagrous (a.) Resembling vinegar; sour.
Vinagrous (a.) Fig.: Unamiable; morose.
Vinasse (n.) The waste liquor remaining in the process of making beet sugar, -- used in the manufacture of potassium carbonate.
Vinatico (n.) Madeira mahogany; the coarse, dark-colored wood of the Persea Indica.
Vincentian (a.) Of or pertaining to Saint Vincent de Paul, or founded by him.
Vincentian (n.) Same as Lazarist.
Vincentian (n.) A member of certain charitable sisterhoods.
Vincetoxin (n.) A glucoside extracted from the root of the white swallowwort (Vincetoxicum officinale, a plant of the Asclepias family) as a bitter yellow amorphous substance; -- called also asclepiadin, and cynanchin.
Vincibility (n.) The quality or state of being vincible, vincibleness.
Vincible (a.) Capable of being overcome or subdued; conquerable.
Vincibleness (n.) The quality or state of being vincible.
Vincture (n.) A binding.
Vincula (pl. ) of Vinculum
Vinculums (pl. ) of Vinculum
Vinculum (n.) A bond of union; a tie.
Vinculum (n.) A straight, horizontal mark placed over two or more members of a compound quantity, which are to be subjected to the same operation, as in the expression x2 + y2 - x + y.
Vinculum (n.) A band or bundle of fibers; a fraenum.
Vinculum (n.) A commissure uniting the two main tendons in the foot of certain birds.
Vindemial (a.) Of or pertaining to a vintage, or grape harvest.
Vindemiate (v. i.) To gather the vintage.
Vindemiation (n.) The operation of gathering grapes.
Vindicable (a.) Capable of being vindicated.
Vindicated (imp. & p. p.) of Vindicate
Vindicating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vindicate
Vindicate (v. t.) To lay claim to; to assert a right to; to claim.
Vindicate (v. t.) To maintain or defend with success; to prove to be valid; to assert convincingly; to sustain against assault; as, to vindicate a right, claim, or title.
Vindicate (v. t.) To support or maintain as true or correct, against denial, censure, or objections; to defend; to justify.
Vindicate (v. t.) To maintain, as a law or a cause, by overthrowing enemies.
Vindicate (v. t.) To liberate; to set free; to deliver.
Vindicate (v. t.) To avenge; to punish; as, a war to vindicate or punish infidelity.
Vindication (n.) The act of vindicating, or the state of being vindicated; defense; justification against denial or censure; as, the vindication of opinions; his vindication is complete.
Vindication (n.) The claiming a thing as one's own; the asserting of a right or title in, or to, a thing.
Vindicative (a.) Tending to vindicate; vindicating; as, a vindicative policy.
Vindicative (a.) Revengeful; vindictive.
Vindicator (n.) One who vindicates; one who justifies or maintains.
Vindicatory (a.) Tending or serving to vindicate or justify; justificatory; vindicative.
Vindicatory (a.) Inflicting punishment; avenging; punitory.
Vindictive (a.) Disposed to revenge; prompted or characterized by revenge; revengeful.
Vindictive (a.) Punitive.
Vine (n.) Any woody climbing plant which bears grapes.
Vine (n.) Hence, a climbing or trailing plant; the long, slender stem of any plant that trails on the ground, or climbs by winding round a fixed object, or by seizing anything with its tendrils, or claspers; a creeper; as, the hop vine; the bean vine; the vines of melons, squashes, pumpkins, and other cucurbitaceous plants.
Vineal (a.) Of or pertaining to vines; containing vines.
Vine-clad (a.) Covered with vines.
Vined (a.) Having leaves like those of the vine; ornamented with vine leaves.
Vinedresser (n.) One who cultivates, prunes, or cares for, grapevines; a laborer in a vineyard.
Vinegar (a.) A sour liquid used as a condiment, or as a preservative, and obtained by the spontaneous (acetous) fermentation, or by the artificial oxidation, of wine, cider, beer, or the like.
Vinegar (a.) Hence, anything sour; -- used also metaphorically.
Vinegar (v. t.) To convert into vinegar; to make like vinegar; to render sour or sharp.
Vinegarette (n.) See Vinaigrette, n., 2.
Vinegary (a.) Having the nature of vinegar; sour; unamiable.
Viner (n.) A vinedresser.
Vinery (n.) A vineyard.
Vinery (n.) A structure, usually inclosed with glass, for rearing and protecting vines; a grapery.
Vinette (n.) A sprig or branch.
Vinewed (a.) Same as Vinnewed.
Vineyard (n.) An inclosure or yard for grapevines; a plantation of vines producing grapes.
Vineyardist (n.) One who cultivates a vineyard.
Vingt et un () A game at cards, played by two or more persons. The fortune of each player depends upon obtaining from the dealer such cards that the sum of their pips, or spots, is twenty-one, or a number near to it.
Vingtun (n.) Contraction for Vingt et un.
Vinic (a.) Of or pertaining to wine; as, vinic alcohol.
Viniculture (n.) The cultivation of the vine, esp. for making wine; viticulture.
Vinnewed (a.) Moldy; musty.
Vinny (a.) Vinnewed.
Vinolency (n.) Drunkennes.
Vinolent (a.) Given to wine; drunken; intemperate.
Vinometer (n.) An instrument for determining the strength or purity of wine by measuring its density.
Vin ordinaire () A cheap claret, used as a table wine in France.
Vinose (a.) Vinous.
Vinosity (n.) The quality or state of being vinous.
Vinous (a.) Of or pertaining to wine; having the qualities of wine; as, a vinous taste.
Vinquish (n.) See Vanquish, n.
Vintage (n.) The produce of the vine for one season, in grapes or in wine; as, the vintage is abundant; the vintage of 1840.
Vintage (n.) The act or time of gathering the crop of grapes, or making the wine for a season.
Vintager (n.) One who gathers the vintage.
Vintaging (n.) The act of gathering the vintage, or crop of grapes.
Vintner (n.) One who deals in wine; a wine seller, or wine merchant.
Vintry (n.) A place where wine is sold.
Viny (a.) Of or pertaining to vines; producing, or abounding in, vines.
Vinyl (n.) The hypothetical radical C2H3, regarded as the characteristic residue of ethylene and that related series of unsaturated hydrocarbons with which the allyl compounds are homologous.
Viol (n.) A stringed musical instrument formerly in use, of the same form as the violin, but larger, and having six strings, to be struck with a bow, and the neck furnished with frets for stopping the strings.
Viol (n.) A large rope sometimes used in weighing anchor.
Viola (n.) A genus of polypetalous herbaceous plants, including all kinds of violets.
Viola (n.) An instrument in form and use resembling the violin, but larger, and a fifth lower in compass.
Violable (a.) Capable of being violated, broken, or injured.
Violaceous (a.) Resembling violets in color; bluish purple.
Violaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants, of which the violet is the type. It contains about twenty genera and two hundred and fifty species.
Violaniline (n.) A dyestuff of the induline group, made from aniline, and used as a substitute for indigo in dyeing wool and silk a violet-blue or a gray-blue color.
Violantin (n.) A complex nitrogenous substance, produced as a yellow crystalline substance, and regarded as a complex derivative of barbituric acid.
Violaquercitrin (n.) A yellow crystalline glucoside obtained from the pansy (Viola tricolor), and decomposing into glucose and quercitrin.
Violascent (a.) Violescent.
Violates (imp. & p. p.) of Violate
Violating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Violate
Violate (v. t.) To treat in a violent manner; to abuse.
Violate (v. t.) To do violence to, as to anything that should be held sacred or respected; to profane; to desecrate; to break forcibly; to trench upon; to infringe.
Violate (v. t.) To disturb; to interrupt.
Violate (v. t.) To commit rape on; to ravish; to outrage.
Violation (n.) The act of violating, treating with violence, or injuring; the state of being violated.
Violation (n.) Infringement; transgression; nonobservance; as, the violation of law or positive command, of covenants, promises, etc.
Violation (n.) An act of irreverence or desecration; profanation or contemptuous treatment of sacred things; as, the violation of a church.
Violation (n.) Interruption, as of sleep or peace; disturbance.
Violation (n.) Ravishment; rape; outrage.
Violative (a.) Violating, or tending to violate.
Violator (n.) One who violates; an infringer; a profaner; a ravisher.
Viole (n.) A vial.
Violence (n.) The quality or state of being violent; highly excited action, whether physical or moral; vehemence; impetuosity; force.
Violence (n.) Injury done to that which is entitled to respect, reverence, or observance; profanation; infringement; unjust force; outrage; assault.
Violence (n.) Ravishment; rape; constupration.
Violence (v. t.) To assault; to injure; also, to bring by violence; to compel.
Violent (a.) Moving or acting with physical strength; urged or impelled with force; excited by strong feeling or passion; forcible; vehement; impetuous; fierce; furious; severe; as, a violent blow; the violent attack of a disease.
Violent (a.) Acting, characterized, or produced by unjust or improper force; outrageous; unauthorized; as, a violent attack on the right of free speech.
Violent (a.) Produced or effected by force; not spontaneous; unnatural; abnormal.
Violent (n.) An assailant.
Violent (v. t.) To urge with violence.
Violent (v. i.) To be violent; to act violently.
Violently (adv.) In a violent manner.
Violescent (a.) Tending to a violet color; violascent.
Violet (n.) Any plant or flower of the genus Viola, of many species. The violets are generally low, herbaceous plants, and the flowers of many of the species are blue, while others are white or yellow, or of several colors, as the pansy (Viola tricolor).
Violet (n.) The color of a violet, or that part of the spectrum farthest from red. It is the most refrangible part of the spectrum.
Violet (n.) In art, a color produced by a combination of red and blue in equal proportions; a bluish purple color.
Violet (n.) Any one of numerous species of small violet-colored butterflies belonging to Lycaena, or Rusticus, and allied genera.
Violet (n.) Dark blue, inclining to red; bluish purple; having a color produced by red and blue combined.
Violet-tip (n.) A very handsome American butterfly (Polygonia interrogationis). Its wings are mottled with various shades of red and brown and have violet tips.
Violin (n.) A small instrument with four strings, played with a bow; a fiddle.
Violine (n.) A pale yellow amorphous substance of alkaloidal nature and emetic properties, said to have been extracted from the root and foliage of the violet (Viola).
Violine (n.) Mauve aniline. See under Mauve.
Violinist (n.) A player on the violin.
Violist (n.) A player on the viol.
Violoncellist (n.) A player on the violoncello.
Violoncello (n.) A stringed instrument of music; a bass viol of four strings, or a bass violin with long, large strings, giving sounds an octave lower than the viola, or tenor or alto violin.
Violone (n.) The largest instrument of the bass-viol kind, having strings tuned an octave below those of the violoncello; the contrabasso; -- called also double bass.
Violous (a.) Violent.
Violuric (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitroso derivative of barbituric acid. It is obtained as a white or yellow crystalline substance, and forms characteristic yellow, blue, and violet salts.
Viper (a.) Any one of numerous species of Old World venomous makes belonging to Vipera, Clotho, Daboia, and other genera of the family Viperidae.
Viper (a.) A dangerous, treacherous, or malignant person.
Viperina (n. pl.) See Viperoidea.
Viperine (a.) Of or pertaining to a viper or vipers; resembling a viper.
Viperish (a.) Somewhat like a viper; viperous.
Viperoidea (n. pl.) Alt. of Viperoides
Viperoides (n. pl.) A division of serpents which includes the true vipers of the Old World and the rattlesnakes and moccasin snakes of America; -- called also Viperina.
Viperous (a.) Having the qualities of a viper; malignant; venomous; as, a viperous tongue.
Viraginian (a.) Of or pertaining to a virago; having the qualities of a virago.
Viraginity (n.) The qualities or characteristics of a virago.
Viragoes (pl. ) of Virago
Virago (n.) A woman of extraordinary stature, strength, and courage; a woman who has the robust body and masculine mind of a man; a female warrior.
Virago (n.) Hence, a mannish woman; a bold, turbulent woman; a termagant; a vixen.
Vire (n.) An arrow, having a rotary motion, formerly used with the crossbow. Cf. Vireton.
Virelay (n.) An ancient French song, or short poem, wholly in two rhymes, and composed in short lines, with a refrain.
Virent (a.) Green; not withered.
Vireo (n.) Any one of numerous species of American singing birds belonging to Vireo and allied genera of the family Vireonidae. In many of the species the back is greenish, or olive-colored. Called also greenlet.
Virescence () The act or state of becoming green through the formation of chlorophyll.
Virescent (a.) Beginning to be green; slightly green; greenish.
Vireton (n.) An arrow or bolt for a crossbow having feathers or brass placed at an angle with the shaft to make it spin in flying.
Virgalieu (n.) A valuable kind of pear, of an obovate shape and with melting flesh of delicious flavor; -- more properly called White Doyenne.
Virgate (a.) Having the form of a straight rod; wand-shaped; straight and slender.
Virgate (n.) A yardland, or measure of land varying from fifteen to forty acres.
Virgated (a.) Striped; streaked.
Virge (n.) A wand. See Verge.
Virger (n.) See Verger.
Virgilian (a.) Of or pertaining to Virgil, the Roman poet; resembling the style of Virgil.
Virgin (n.) A woman who has had no carnal knowledge of man; a maid.
Virgin (n.) A person of the male sex who has not known sexual indulgence.
Virgin (n.) See Virgo.
Virgin (n.) Any one of several species of gossamer-winged butterflies of the family Lycaenidae.
Virgin (n.) A female insect producing eggs from which young are hatched, though there has been no fecundation by a male; a parthenogenetic insect.
Virgin (a.) Being a virgin; chaste; of or pertaining to a virgin; becoming a virgin; maidenly; modest; indicating modesty; as, a virgin blush.
Virgin (a.) Pure; undefiled; unmixed; fresh; new; as, virgin soil; virgin gold.
Virgin (a.) Not yet pregnant; impregnant.
Virgin (v. i.) To act the virgin; to be or keep chaste; -- followed by it. See It, 5.
Virginal (a.) Of or pertaining to a virgin; becoming a virgin; maidenly.
Virginal (n.) An instrument somewhat resembling the spinet, but having a rectangular form, like the small piano. It had strings and keys, but only one wire to a note. The instrument was used in the sixteenth century, but is now wholly obsolete. It was sometimes called a pair of virginals.
Virginal (v. i.) To play with the fingers, as if on a virginal; to tap or pat.
Virginhood (n.) Virginity; maidenhood.
Virginia (n.) One of the States of the United States of America.
Virginia (a.) Of or pertaining to the State of Virginia.
Virginity (n.) The quality or state of being a virgin; undefiled purity or chastity; maidenhood.
Virginity (n.) The unmarried life; celibacy.
Virgo (n.) A sign of the zodiac which the sun enters about the 21st of August, marked thus [/] in almanacs.
Virgo (n.) A constellation of the zodiac, now occupying chiefly the sign Libra, and containing the bright star Spica.
Virgouleuse (n.) An old French variety of pear, of little value.
Virgularian (n.) Any one of numerous species of long, slender Alcyonaria belonging to Virgularia and allied genera of the family Virgularidae. These corals are allied to the sea-pens, but have a long rodlike rhachis inclosing a slender, round or square, calcareous axis. The polyps are arranged in transverse rows or clusters along each side of the rhachis.
Virgulate (a.) Shaped like a little twig or rod.
Virgule (n.) A comma.
Virial (n.) A certain function relating to a system of forces and their points of application, -- first used by Clausius in the investigation of problems in molecular physics.
Virid (a.) Green.
Viridescence (n.) Quality or state of being viridescent.
Viridescent (a.) Slightly green; greenish.
Viridine (n.) A greenish, oily, nitrogenous hydrocarbon, C12H19N7, obtained from coal tar, and probably consisting of a mixture of several metameric compounds which are higher derivatives of the base pyridine.
Viridite (n.) A greenish chloritic mineral common in certain igneous rocks, as diabase, as a result of alternation.
Viridity (n.) Greenness; verdure; the color of grass and foliage.
Viridity (n.) Freshness; soundness.
Viridness (n.) Viridity; greenness.
Virile (a.) Having the nature, properties, or qualities, of an adult man; characteristic of developed manhood; hence, masterful; forceful; specifically, capable of begetting; -- opposed to womanly, feminine, and puerile; as, virile age, virile power, virile organs.
Virility (n.) The quality or state of being virile; developed manhood; manliness; specif., the power of procreation; as, exhaustion.
Viripotent (a.) Developed in manhood; hence, able to beget; marriageable.
Virmilion (n.) See Vermilion.
Virole (n.) A ring surrounding a bugle or hunting horn.
Viroled (a.) Furnished with a virole or viroles; -- said of a horn or a bugle when the rings are of different tincture from the rest of the horn.
Virose (a.) Having a nauseous odor; fetid; poisonous.
Virtu (n.) A love of the fine arts; a taste for curiosities.
Virtual (a.) Having the power of acting or of invisible efficacy without the agency of the material or sensible part; potential; energizing.
Virtual (a.) Being in essence or effect, not in fact; as, the virtual presence of a man in his agent or substitute.
Virtuality (n.) The quality or state of being virtual.
Virtuality (n.) Potentiality; efficacy; potential existence.
Virtually (adv.) In a virtual manner; in efficacy or effect only, and not actually; to all intents and purposes; practically.
Virtuate (v. t.) To make efficacious; to give virtue of efficacy.
Virtue (n.) Manly strength or courage; bravery; daring; spirit; valor.
Virtue (n.) Active quality or power; capacity or power adequate to the production of a given effect; energy; strength; potency; efficacy; as, the virtue of a medicine.
Virtue (n.) Energy or influence operating without contact of the material or sensible substance.
Virtue (n.) Excellence; value; merit; meritoriousness; worth.
Virtue (n.) Specifically, moral excellence; integrity of character; purity of soul; performance of duty.
Virtue (n.) A particular moral excellence; as, the virtue of temperance, of charity, etc.
Virtue (n.) Specifically: Chastity; purity; especially, the chastity of women; virginity.
Virtue (n.) One of the orders of the celestial hierarchy.
Virtueless (a.) Destitute of virtue; without efficacy or operating qualities; powerless.
Virtuosity (n.) The quality or state of being a virtuoso; in a bad sense, the character of one in whom mere artistic feeling or aesthetic cultivation takes the place of religious character; sentimentalism.
Virtuosity (n.) Virtuosos, collectively.
Virtuosity (n.) An art or study affected by virtuosos.
Virtuosos (pl. ) of Virtuoso
Virtuosi (pl. ) of Virtuoso
Virtuoso (n.) One devoted to virtu; one skilled in the fine arts, in antiquities, and the like; a collector or ardent admirer of curiosities, etc.
Virtuoso (n.) A performer on some instrument, as the violin or the piano, who excels in the technical part of his art; a brilliant concert player.
Virtuosoship (n.) The condition, pursuits, or occupation of a virtuoso.
Virtuous (a.) Possessing or exhibiting virtue.
Virtuous (a.) Exhibiting manly courage and strength; valorous; valiant; brave.
Virtuous (a.) Having power or efficacy; powerfully operative; efficacious; potent.
Virtuous (a.) Having moral excellence; characterized by morality; upright; righteous; pure; as, a virtuous action.
Virtuous (a.) Chaste; pure; -- applied especially to women.
Virulence (n.) Alt. of Virulency
Virulency (n.) The quality or state of being virulent or venomous; poisonousness; malignancy.
Virulency (n.) Extreme bitterness or malignity of disposition.
Virulent (a.) Extremely poisonous or venomous; very active in doing injury.
Virulent (a.) Very bitter in enmity; actuated by a desire to injure; malignant; as, a virulent invective.
Virulented (a.) Made virulent; poisoned.
Virulently (adv.) In a virulent manner.
Virus (v. i.) Contagious or poisonous matter, as of specific ulcers, the bite of snakes, etc.; -- applied to organic poisons.
Virus (v. i.) The special contagion, inappreciable to the senses and acting in exceedingly minute quantities, by which a disease is introduced into the organism and maintained there.
Virus (v. i.) Fig.: Any morbid corrupting quality in intellectual or moral conditions; something that poisons the mind or the soul; as, the virus of obscene books.
Vis (n.) Force; power.
Vis (n.) Physical force.
Vis (n.) Moral power.
Visa (n.) See Vis/.
Visaed (imp. & p. p.) of Visa
Visaing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Visa
Visa (v. t.) To indorse, after examination, with the word vise, as a passport; to vise.
Visage (n.) The face, countenance, or look of a person or an animal; -- chiefly applied to the human face.
Visage (v. t.) To face.
Visaged (a.) Having a visage.
Visard (n.) A mask. See Visor.
Visard (v. t.) To mask.
Vis-a-vis (n.) One who, or that which, is face to face with another; esp., one who faces another in dancing.
Vis-a-vis (n.) A carriage in which two persons sit face to face. Also, a form of sofa with seats for two persons, so arranged that the occupants are face to face while sitting on opposite sides.
Vis-a-vis (adv.) Face to face.
Viscacha (n.) Alt. of Viz-cacha
Viz-cacha (n.) A large burrowing South American rodent (Lagostomus trichodactylus) allied to the chinchillas, but much larger. Its fur is soft and rather long, mottled gray above, white or yellowish white beneath. There is a white band across the muzzle, and a dark band on each cheek. It inhabits grassy plains, and is noted for its extensive burrows and for heaping up miscellaneous articles at the mouth of its burrows. Called also biscacha, bizcacha, vischacha, vishatscha.
Viscera (n.) pl. of Viscus.
Visceral (a.) Of or pertaining to the viscera; splanchnic.
Visceral (a.) Fig.: Having deep sensibility.
Viscerated (imp. & p. p.) of Viscerate
Viscerating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Viscerate
Viscerate (v. t.) To deprive of the viscera, or entrails; to eviscerate; to disembowel.
Visceroskeletal (a.) Of or pertaining to the framework, or skeleton, or skeleton, of the viscera; as, the visceroskeletal system of muscles.
Viscid (a.) Sticking or adhering, and having a ropy or glutinous consistency; viscous; glutinous; sticky; tenacious; clammy; as, turpentine, tar, gums, etc., are more or less viscid.
Viscidity (n.) The quality or state of being viscid; also, that which is viscid; glutinous concretion; stickiness.
Viscin (n.) A clear, viscous, tasteless substance extracted from the mucilaginous sap of the mistletoe (Viscum album), holly, etc., and constituting an essential ingredient of birdlime.
Viscoidal (a.) Somewhat viscous. Cf. Mobile, a., 2.
Viscosimeter (n.) An instrument for measuring the degree of viscosity of liquids, as solutions of gum.
Viscosity (n.) The quality or state of being viscous.
Viscosity (n.) A quality analogous to that of a viscous fluid, supposed to be caused by internal friction, especially in the case of gases.
Viscount (a.) An officer who formerly supplied the place of the count, or earl; the sheriff of the county.
Viscount (a.) A nobleman of the fourth rank, next in order below an earl and next above a baron; also, his degree or title of nobility. See Peer, n., 3.
Viscountcy (n.) The dignity or jurisdiction of a viscount.
Viscountess (n.) The wife of a viscount.
Viscountship (n.) Alt. of Viscounty
Viscounty (n.) The quality, rank, or office of a viscount.
Viscous (a.) Adhesive or sticky, and having a ropy or glutinous consistency; viscid; glutinous; clammy; tenacious; as, a viscous juice.
Viscum (n.) A genus of parasitic shrubs, including the mistletoe of Europe.
Viscum (n.) Birdlime, which is often made from the berries of the European mistletoe.
Viscera (pl. ) of Viscus
Viscus (n.) One of the organs, as the brain, heart, or stomach, in the great cavities of the body of an animal; -- especially used in the plural, and applied to the organs contained in the abdomen.
Vise (n.) An instrument consisting of two jaws, closing by a screw, lever, cam, or the like, for holding work, as in filing.
Vise (n.) An indorsement made on a passport by the proper authorities of certain countries on the continent of Europe, denoting that it has been examined, and that the person who bears it is permitted to proceed on his journey; a visa.
Viseed (imp. & p. p.) of Vise
Viseing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vise
Vise (v. t.) To examine and indorse, as a passport; to visa.
Vishnu (n.) A divinity of the modern Hindu trimurti, or trinity. He is regarded as the preserver, while Brahma is the creator, and Siva the destroyer of the creation.
Visibility (n.) The quality or state of being visible.
Visible (a.) Perceivable by the eye; capable of being seen; perceptible; in view; as, a visible star; the least spot is visible on white paper.
Visible (a.) Noticeable; apparent; open; conspicuous.
Visigoth (n.) One of the West Goths. See the Note under Goth.
Vision (v.) The act of seeing external objects; actual sight.
Vision (v.) The faculty of seeing; sight; one of the five senses, by which colors and the physical qualities of external objects are appreciated as a result of the stimulating action of light on the sensitive retina, an expansion of the optic nerve.
Vision (v.) That which is seen; an object of sight.
Vision (v.) Especially, that which is seen otherwise than by the ordinary sight, or the rational eye; a supernatural, prophetic, or imaginary sight; an apparition; a phantom; a specter; as, the visions of Isaiah.
Vision (v.) Hence, something unreal or imaginary; a creation of fancy.
Visioned (imp. & p. p.) of Vision
Visioning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vision
Vision (v. t.) To see in a vision; to dream.
Visional (a.) Of or pertaining to a vision.
Visionariness (n.) The quality or state of being visionary.
Visionary (a.) Of or pertaining to a visions or visions; characterized by, appropriate to, or favorable for, visions.
Visionary (a.) Affected by phantoms; disposed to receive impressions on the imagination; given to reverie; apt to receive, and act upon, fancies as if they were realities.
Visionary (a.) Existing in imagination only; not real; fanciful; imaginary; having no solid foundation; as, visionary prospect; a visionary scheme or project.
Visionaries (pl. ) of Visionary
Visionary (n.) One whose imagination is disturbed; one who sees visions or phantoms.
Visionary (n.) One whose imagination overpowers his reason and controls his judgment; an unpractical schemer; one who builds castles in the air; a daydreamer.
Visioned (a.) Having the power of seeing visions; inspired; also, seen in visions.
Visionist (n.) A visionary.
Visionless (a.) Destitute of vision; sightless.
Visited (imp. & p. p.) of Visit
Visiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Visit
Visit (v. t.) To go or come to see, as for the purpose of friendship, business, curiosity, etc.; to attend; to call upon; as, the physician visits his patient.
Visit (v. t.) To go or come to see for inspection, examination, correction of abuses, etc.; to examine, to inspect; as, a bishop visits his diocese; a superintendent visits persons or works under his charge.
Visit (v. t.) To come to for the purpose of chastising, rewarding, comforting; to come upon with reward or retribution; to appear before or judge; as, to visit in mercy; to visit one in wrath.
Visit (v. i.) To make a visit or visits; to maintain visiting relations; to practice calling on others.
Visit (v. t.) The act of visiting, or going to see a person or thing; a brief stay of business, friendship, ceremony, curiosity, or the like, usually longer than a call; as, a visit of civility or respect; a visit to Saratoga; the visit of a physician.
Visit (v. t.) The act of going to view or inspect; an official or formal inspection; examination; visitation; as, the visit of a trustee or inspector.
Visitable (a.) Liable or subject to be visited or inspected.
Visitant (n.) One who visits; a guest; a visitor.
Visitant (a.) Visiting.
Visitation (n.) The act of visiting, or the state of being visited; access for inspection or examination.
Visitation (n.) Specifically: The act of a superior or superintending officer who, in the discharge of his office, visits a corporation, college, etc., to examine into the manner in which it is conducted, and see that its laws and regulations are duly observed and executed; as, the visitation of a diocese by a bishop.
Visitation (n.) The object of a visit.
Visitation (n.) The act of a naval commander who visits, or enters on board, a vessel belonging to another nation, for the purpose of ascertaining her character and object, but without claiming or exercising a right of searching the vessel. It is, however, usually coupled with the right of search (see under Search), visitation being used for the purpose of search.
Visitation (n.) Special dispensation; communication of divine favor and goodness, or, more usually, of divine wrath and vengeance; retributive calamity; retribution; judgment.
Visitation (n.) A festival in honor of the visit of the Virgin Mary to Elisabeth, mother of John the Baptist, celebrated on the second of July.
Visitatorial (a.) Of or pertaining to visitation, or a judicial visitor or superintendent; visitorial.
Visite (n.) A light cape or short cloak of silk or lace worn by women in summer.
Visiter (n.) A visitor.
Visiting () a. & vb. n. from Visit.
Visitor () One who visits; one who comes or goes to see another, as in civility or friendship.
Visitor () A superior, or a person lawfully appointed for the purpose, who makes formal visits of inspection to a corporation or an institution. See Visit, v. t., 2, and Visitation, n., 2.
Visitorial (a.) Same as Visitatorial.
Visive (a.) Of or pertaining to the sight; visual.
Visne (n.) Neighborhood; vicinity; venue. See Venue.
Visnomy (n.) Face; countenance.
Vison (n.) The mink.
Visor (n.) A part of a helmet, arranged so as to lift or open, and so show the face. The openings for seeing and breathing are generally in it.
Visor (n.) A mask used to disfigure or disguise.
Visor (n.) The fore piece of a cap, projecting over, and protecting the eyes.
Visored (a.) Wearing a visor; masked.
Vistas (pl. ) of Vista
Vista (n.) A view; especially, a view through or between intervening objects, as trees; a view or prospect through an avenue, or the like; hence, the trees or other objects that form the avenue.
Visto (n.) A vista; a prospect.
Visual (a.) Of or pertaining to sight; used in sight; serving as the instrument of seeing; as, the visual nerve.
Visual (a.) That can be seen; visible.
Visualize (v. t.) To make visual, or visible; to see in fancy.
Vitaille (n.) Food; victuals.
Vital (a.) Belonging or relating to life, either animal or vegetable; as, vital energies; vital functions; vital actions.
Vital (a.) Contributing to life; necessary to, or supporting, life; as, vital blood.
Vital (a.) Containing life; living.
Vital (a.) Being the seat of life; being that on which life depends; mortal.
Vital (a.) Very necessary; highly important; essential.
Vital (a.) Capable of living; in a state to live; viable.
Vital (n.) A vital part; one of the vitals.
Vitalic (a.) Pertaining to life; vital.
Vitalism (n.) The doctrine that all the functions of a living organism are due to an unknown vital principle distinct from all chemical and physical forces.
Vitalist (n.) A believer in the theory of vitalism; -- opposed to physicist.
Vitalistic (a.) Pertaining to, or involving, vitalism, or the theory of a special vital principle.
Vitality (n.) The quality or state of being vital; the principle of life; vital force; animation; as, the vitality of eggs or vegetable seeds; the vitality of an enterprise.
Vitalization (n.) The act or process of vitalizing, or infusing the vital principle.
Vitalized (imp. & p. p.) of Vitalize
Vitalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vitalize
Vitalize (v. t.) To endow with life, or vitality; to give life to; to make alive; as, vitalized blood.
Vitally (adv.) In a vital manner.
Vitals (n. pl.) Organs that are necessary for life; more especially, the heart, lungs, and brain.
Vitals (n. pl.) Fig.: The part essential to the life or health of anything; as, the vitals of a state.
Vitellary (a.) Vitelline.
Vitelligenous (a.) Producing yolk, or vitelline substance; -- applied to certain cells (also called nutritive, or yolk, cells) formed in the ovaries of many insects, and supposed to supply nutriment to the developing ova.
Vitellin (n.) An albuminous body, belonging to the class of globulins, obtained from yolk of egg, of which it is the chief proteid constituent, and from the seeds of many plants. From the latter it can be separated in crystalline form.
Vitelline (a.) Of or pertaining to the yolk of eggs; as, the vitelline membrane, a smooth, transparent membrane surrounding the vitellus.
Vitellogene (n.) A gland secreting the yolk of the eggs in trematodes, turbellarians, and some other helminths.
Vitellus (n.) The contents or substance of the ovum; egg yolk. See Illust. of Ovum.
Vitellus (n.) Perisperm in an early condition.
Vitiated (imp. & p. p.) of Vitiate
Vitiating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vitiate
Vitiate (v. t.) To make vicious, faulty, or imperfect; to render defective; to injure the substance or qualities of; to impair; to contaminate; to spoil; as, exaggeration vitiates a style of writing; sewer gas vitiates the air.
Vitiate (v. t.) To cause to fail of effect, either wholly or in part; to make void; to destroy, as the validity or binding force of an instrument or transaction; to annul; as, any undue influence exerted on a jury vitiates their verdict; fraud vitiates a contract.
Vitiation (n.) The act of vitiating, or the state of being vitiated; depravation; corruption; invalidation; as, the vitiation of the blood; the vitiation of a contract.
Viticulose (a.) Having long and slender trailing stems.
Viticultural (a.) Of or pertaining to viticulture.
Viticulture (n.) The cultivation of the vine; grape growing.
Viticulturist (n.) One engaged in viticulture.
Vitiligo (n.) A rare skin disease consisting in the development of smooth, milk-white spots upon various parts of the body.
Vitilitigate (v. i.) To contend in law litigiously or cavilously.
Vitilitigation (n.) Cavilous litigation; cavillation.
Vitiosity (n.) Viciousness; depravity.
Vitious (n.) Alt. of Vitiousness
Vitiously (n.) Alt. of Vitiousness
Vitiousness (n.) See Vicious, Viciously, Viciousness.
Vitis (n.) A genus of plants including all true grapevines.
Vitoe (a.) See Durukuli.
Vitrella (n.) One of the transparent lenslike cells in the ocelli of certain arthropods.
Vitre-o-electic (a.) Containing or exhibiting positive, or vitreous, electricity.
Vitreous (a.) Consisting of, or resembling, glass; glassy; as, vitreous rocks.
Vitreous (a.) Of or pertaining to glass; derived from glass; as, vitreous electricity.
Vitreousness (n.) The quality or state of being vitreous.
Vitrescence (n.) The quality or state of being vitreous; glassiness, or the quality of being vitrescent; capability of conversion into glass; susceptibility of being formed into glass.
Vitrescent (a.) Capable of being formed into glass; tending to become glass.
Vitrescible (a.) That may be vitrified; vitrifiable.
Vitric (a.) Having the nature and qualities of glass; glasslike; -- distinguished from ceramic.
Vitrifaction (n.) The act, art, or process of vitrifying; also, the state of being vitrified.
Vitrifacture (n.) The manufacture of glass and glassware.
Vitrifiable (a.) Capable of being vitrified, or converted into glass by heat and fusion; as, flint and alkalies are vitrifiable.
Vitrificable (a.) Vitrifiable.
Vitrificate (v. t.) To convert into glass; to vitrify.
Vitrification (n.) Same as Vitrifaction.
Vitrified (a.) Converted into glass.
Vitriform (a.) Having the form or appearance of glass; resembling glass; glasslike.
Vitrified (imp. & p. p.) of Vitrify
Vitrifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vitrify
Vitrify (v. t.) To convert into, or cause to resemble, glass or a glassy substance, by heat and fusion.
Vitrify (v. t.) To become glass; to be converted into glass.
Vitrina (n.) A genus of terrestrial gastropods, having transparent, very thin, and delicate shells, -- whence the name.
Vitriol (n.) A sulphate of any one of certain metals, as copper, iron, zinc, cobalt. So called on account of the glassy appearance or luster.
Vitriol (n.) Sulphuric acid; -- called also oil of vitriol. So called because first made by the distillation of green vitriol. See Sulphuric acid, under Sulphuric.
Vitriolated (imp. & p. p.) of Vitriolate
Vitriolating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vitriolate
Vitriolate (v. t.) To convert into, or change to, a vitriol; to make into sulphuric acid or a sulphate.
Vitriolate (v. t.) To subject to the action of, or impregnate with, vitriol.
Vitriolate (a.) Vitriolated.
Vitriolate (n.) A sulphate.
Vitriolated (a.) Changed into a vitriol or a sulphate, or subjected to the action of sulphuric acid or of a sulphate; as, vitriolated potash, i. e., potassium sulphate.
Vitriolation (n.) The act, process, or result of vitriolating.
Vitriolic (a.) Of or pertaining to vitriol; derived from, or resembling, vitriol; vitriolous; as, a vitriolic taste. Cf. Vitriol.
Vitriolizable (a.) Capable of being converted into a vitriol.
Vitriolization (n.) The act of vitriolizing, or the state of being vitriolized; vitriolation.
Vitriolize (v. t.) To convert into a vitriol; to vitriolate.
Vitriolous (a.) See Vitriolic.
Vitrite (n.) A kind of glass which is very hard and difficult to fuse, used as an insulator in electrical lamps and other apparatus.
Vitruvian (a.) Of or pertaining to Vitruvius, an ancient Roman architect.
Vittae (pl. ) of Vitta
Vitta (n.) One of the oil tubes in the fruit of umbelliferous plants.
Vitta (n.) A band, or stripe, of color.
Vittate (a.) Bearing or containing vittae.
Vittate (a.) Striped longitudinally.
Vituline (a.) Of or pertaining to a calf or veal.
Vituperable (a.) Liable to, or deserving, vituperation, or severe censure.
Vituperate (v. t.) To find fault with; to scold; to overwhelm with wordy abuse; to censure severely or abusively; to rate.
Vituperation (n.) The act of vituperating; abuse; severe censure; blame.
Vituperative (a.) Uttering or writing censure; containing, or characterized by, abuse; scolding; abusive.
Vituperator (n.) One who vituperates, or censures abusively.
Vituperrious (a.) Worthy of vituperation; shameful; disgraceful.
Vivace (a. & adv.) Brisk; vivacious; with spirit; -- a direction to perform a passage in a brisk and lively manner.
Vivacious (a.) Having vigorous powers of life; tenacious of life; long-lived.
Vivacious (a.) Sprightly in temper or conduct; lively; merry; as, a vivacious poet.
Vivacious (a.) Living through the winter, or from year to year; perennial.
Vivacity (n.) The quality or state of being vivacious.
Vivacity (n.) Tenacity of life; vital force; natural vigor.
Vivacity (n.) Life; animation; spiritedness; liveliness; sprightliness; as, the vivacity of a discourse; a lady of great vivacity; vivacity of countenance.
Vivandiere (n.) In Continental armies, especially in the French army, a woman accompanying a regiment, who sells provisions and liquor to the soldiers; a female sutler.
Vivariums (pl. ) of Vivarium
Vivaria (pl. ) of Vivarium
Vivarium (n.) A place artificially arranged for keeping or raising living animals, as a park, a pond, an aquarium, a warren, etc.
Vivaries (pl. ) of Vivary
Vivary (n.) A vivarium.
Viva voce () By word of mouth; orally.
Vivda (n.) See Vifda.
Vive () Long live, that is, success to; as, vive le roi, long live the king; vive la bagatelle, success to trifles or sport.
Vive (a.) Lively; animated; forcible.
Vively (adv.) In a lively manner.
Vivency (n.) Manner of supporting or continuing life or vegetation.
Viverra (n.) A genus of carnivores which comprises the civets.
Viverrine (a.) Of or pertaining to the Viverridae, or Civet family.
Vivers (n. pl.) Provisions; victuals.
Vives (n.) A disease of brute animals, especially of horses, seated in the glands under the ear, where a tumor is formed which sometimes ends in suppuration.
Vivianite (n.) A hydrous phosphate of iron of a blue to green color, growing darker on exposure. It occurs in monoclinic crystals, also fibrous, massive, and earthy.
Vivid (a.) True to the life; exhibiting the appearance of life or freshness; animated; spirited; bright; strong; intense; as, vivid colors.
Vivid (a.) Forming brilliant images, or painting in lively colors; lively; sprightly; as, a vivid imagination.
Vividity (n.) The quality or state of being vivid; vividness.
Vivific (a.) Alt. of Vivifical
Vivifical (a.) Giving life; reviving; enlivening.
Vivificate (v. t.) To give life to; to animate; to revive; to vivify.
Vivificate (v. t.) To bring back a metal to the metallic form, as from an oxide or solution; to reduce.
Vivification (n.) The act of vivifying, or the state of being vivified; restoration of life; revival.
Vivification (n.) One of the changes of assimilation, in which proteid matter which has been transformed, and made a part of the tissue or tissue cells, is endowed with life, and thus enabled to manifest the phenomena of irritability, contractility, etc.
Vivification (n.) The act or process of vivificating.
Vivificative (a.) Able or tending to vivify, animate, or give life; vivifying.
Vivified (imp. & p. p.) of Vivify
Vivifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vivify
Vivify (v. t.) To endue with life; to make to be living; to quicken; to animate.
Vivipara (n. pl.) An artificial division of vertebrates including those that produce their young alive; -- opposed to Ovipara.
Viviparity (n.) The quality or condition of being viviparous.
Viviparous (a.) Producing young in a living state, as most mammals, or as those plants the offspring of which are produced alive, either by bulbs instead of seeds, or by the seeds themselves germinating on the plant, instead of falling, as they usually do; -- opposed to oviparous.
Viviparously (adv.) In a viviparous manner.
Viviparousness (n.) The quality of being viviparous; viviparity.
Vivisect (v. t.) To perform vivisection upon; to dissect alive.
Vivisection (n.) The dissection of an animal while alive, for the purpose of making physiological investigations.
Vivisectional (a.) Of or pertaining to vivisection.
Vivisectionist (n.) One who practices or advocates vivisection; a vivisector.
Vivisector (n.) A vivisectionist.
Vixen (n.) A female fox.
Vixen (n.) A cross, ill-tempered person; -- formerly used of either sex, now only of a woman.
Vixenish (a.) Of or pertaining to a vixen; resembling a vixen.
Vixenly (a.) Like a vixen; vixenish.
Viz (adv.) To wit; that is; namely.
Vizard (n.) A mask; a visor.
Vizarded (a.) Wearing a vizard.
Vizcacha (n.) Same as Viscacha.
Vizier (n.) A councilor of state; a high executive officer in Turkey and other Oriental countries.
Vizierate (n.) The office, dignity, or authority of a vizier.
Vizier-azem (n.) A grand vizier. See under Vizier.
Vizierial (a.) Of, pertaining to, or issued by, a vizier.
Vizir (n.) See Vizier.
Vizor (n.) See Visor.
Vlissmaki (n.) The diadem indris. See Indris.
V moth () A common gray European moth (Halia vauaria) having a V-shaped spot of dark brown on each of the fore wings.
Vocable (n.) A word; a term; a name; specifically, a word considered as composed of certain sounds or letters, without regard to its meaning.
Vocabularies (pl. ) of Vocabulary
Vocabulary (n.) A list or collection of words arranged in alphabetical order and explained; a dictionary or lexicon, either of a whole language, a single work or author, a branch of science, or the like; a word-book.
Vocabulary (n.) A sum or stock of words employed.
Vocabulist (n.) The writer or maker of a vocabulary; a lexicographer.
Vocal (a.) Of or pertaining to the voice or speech; having voice; endowed with utterance; full of voice, or voices.
Vocal (a.) Uttered or modulated by the voice; oral; as, vocal melody; vocal prayer.
Vocal (a.) Of or pertaining to a vowel or voice sound; also, /poken with tone, intonation, and resonance; sonant; sonorous; -- said of certain articulate sounds.
Vocal (a.) Consisting of, or characterized by, voice, or tone produced in the larynx, which may be modified, either by resonance, as in the case of the vowels, or by obstructive action, as in certain consonants, such as v, l, etc., or by both, as in the nasals m, n, ng; sonant; intonated; voiced. See Voice, and Vowel, also Guide to Pronunciation, // 199-202.
Vocal (a.) Of or pertaining to a vowel; having the character of a vowel; vowel.
Vocal (n.) A vocal sound; specifically, a purely vocal element of speech, unmodified except by resonance; a vowel or a diphthong; a tonic element; a tonic; -- distinguished from a subvocal, and a nonvocal.
Vocal (n.) A man who has a right to vote in certain elections.
Vocalic (a.) Of or pertaining to vowel sounds; consisting of the vowel sounds.
Vocalism (n.) The exercise of the vocal organs; vocalization.
Vocalism (n.) A vocalic sound.
Vocalist (n.) A singer, or vocal musician, as opposed to an instrumentalist.
Vocality (n.) The quality or state of being vocal; utterableness; resonance; as, the vocality of the letters.
Vocality (n.) The quality of being a vowel; vocalic character.
Vocalization (n.) The act of vocalizing, or the state of being vocalized.
Vocalization (n.) The formation and utterance of vocal sounds.
Vocalized (imp. & p. p.) of Vocalize
Vocalizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vocalize
Vocalize (v. t.) To form into voice; to make vocal or sonant; to give intonation or resonance to.
Vocalize (v. t.) To practice singing on the vowel sounds.
Vocally (adv.) In a vocal manner; with voice; orally; with audible sound.
Vocally (adv.) In words; verbally; as, to express desires vocally.
Vocalness (n.) The quality of being vocal; vocality.
Vocation (n.) A call; a summons; a citation; especially, a designation or appointment to a particular state, business, or profession.
Vocation (n.) Destined or appropriate employment; calling; occupation; trade; business; profession.
Vocation (n.) A calling by the will of God.
Vocation (n.) The bestowment of God's distinguishing grace upon a person or nation, by which that person or nation is put in the way of salvation; as, the vocation of the Jews under the old dispensation, and of the Gentiles under the gospel.
Vocation (n.) A call to special religious work, as to the ministry.
Vocative (a.) Of or pertaining to calling; used in calling; specifically (Gram.), used in address; appellative; -- said of that case or form of the noun, pronoun, or adjective, in which a person or thing is addressed; as, Domine, O Lord.
Vocative (n.) The vocative case.
Vociferance (n.) Vociferation; noise; clamor.
Vociferant (a.) Noisy; clamorous.
Vociferate (v. i.) To cry out with vehemence; to exclaim; to bawl; to clamor.
Vociferated (imp. & p. p.) of Vociferate
Vociferating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vociferate
Vociferate (v. t.) To utter with a loud voice; to shout out.
Vociferation (n.) The act of vociferating; violent outcry; vehement utterance of the voice.
Vociferator (n.) One who vociferates, or is clamorous.
Vociferous (a.) Making a loud outcry; clamorous; noisy; as, vociferous heralds.
Vocule (n.) A short or weak utterance; a faint or feeble sound, as that heard on separating the lips in pronouncing p or b.
Vodanium (n.) A supposed element, afterward found to be a mixture of several metals, as copper, iron, lead, nickel, etc.
Vodka (n.) A Russian drink distilled from rye.
Voe (n.) An inlet, bay, or creek; -- so called in the Orkney and Shetland Islands.
Vogle (n.) Same as Vugg.
Vogue (n.) The way or fashion of people at any particular time; temporary mode, custom, or practice; popular reception for the time; -- used now generally in the phrase in vogue.
Vogue (n.) Influence; power; sway.
Voice (n.) Sound uttered by the mouth, especially that uttered by human beings in speech or song; sound thus uttered considered as possessing some special quality or character; as, the human voice; a pleasant voice; a low voice.
Voice (n.) Sound of the kind or quality heard in speech or song in the consonants b, v, d, etc., and in the vowels; sonant, or intonated, utterance; tone; -- distinguished from mere breath sound as heard in f, s, sh, etc., and also whisper.
Voice (n.) The tone or sound emitted by anything.
Voice (n.) The faculty or power of utterance; as, to cultivate the voice.
Voice (n.) Language; words; speech; expression; signification of feeling or opinion.
Voice (n.) Opinion or choice expressed; judgment; a vote.
Voice (n.) Command; precept; -- now chiefly used in scriptural language.
Voice (n.) One who speaks; a speaker.
Voice (n.) A particular mode of inflecting or conjugating verbs, or a particular form of a verb, by means of which is indicated the relation of the subject of the verb to the action which the verb expresses.
Voiced (imp. & p. p.) of Voice
Voicing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Voice
Voice (v. t.) To give utterance or expression to; to utter; to publish; to announce; to divulge; as, to voice the sentiments of the nation.
Voice (v. t.) To utter with sonant or vocal tone; to pronounce with a narrowed glottis and rapid vibrations of the vocal cords; to speak above a whisper.
Voice (v. t.) To fit for producing the proper sounds; to regulate the tone of; as, to voice the pipes of an organ.
Voice (v. t.) To vote; to elect; to appoint.
Voice (v. i.) To clamor; to cry out.
Voiced (a.) Furnished with a voice; expressed by the voice.
Voiced (a.) Uttered with voice; pronounced with vibrations of the vocal cords; sonant; -- said of a sound uttered with the glottis narrowed.
Voiceful (a.) Having a voice or vocal quality; having a loud voice or many voices; vocal; sounding.
Voiceless (a.) Having no voice, utterance, or vote; silent; mute; dumb.
Voiceless (a.) Not sounded with voice; as, a voiceless consonant; surd.
Void (a.) Containing nothing; empty; vacant; not occupied; not filled.
Void (a.) Having no incumbent; unoccupied; -- said of offices and the like.
Void (a.) Being without; destitute; free; wanting; devoid; as, void of learning, or of common use.
Void (a.) Not producing any effect; ineffectual; vain.
Void (a.) Containing no immaterial quality; destitute of mind or soul.
Void (a.) Of no legal force or effect, incapable of confirmation or ratification; null. Cf. Voidable, 2.
Void (n.) An empty space; a vacuum.
Voided (imp. & p. p.) of Void
Voiding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Void
Void (a.) To remove the contents of; to make or leave vacant or empty; to quit; to leave; as, to void a table.
Void (a.) To throw or send out; to evacuate; to emit; to discharge; as, to void excrements.
Void (a.) To render void; to make to be of no validity or effect; to vacate; to annul; to nullify.
Void (v. i.) To be emitted or evacuated.
Voidable (a.) Capable of being voided, or evacuated.
Voidable (a.) Capable of being avoided, or of being adjudged void, invalid, and of no force; capable of being either avoided or confirmed.
Voidance (n.) The act of voiding, emptying, ejecting, or evacuating.
Voidance (n.) A ejection from a benefice.
Voidance (n.) The state of being void; vacancy, as of a benefice which is without an incumbent.
Voidance (n.) Evasion; subterfuge.
Voided (a.) Emptied; evacuated.
Voided (a.) Annulled; invalidated.
Voided (a.) Having the inner part cut away, or left vacant, a narrow border being left at the sides, the tincture of the field being seen in the vacant space; -- said of a charge.
Voider (n.) One who, or that which, voids, /mpties, vacates, or annuls.
Voider (n.) A tray, or basket, formerly used to receive or convey that which is voided or cleared away from a given place; especially, one for carrying off the remains of a meal, as fragments of food; sometimes, a basket for containing household articles, as clothes, etc.
Voider (n.) A servant whose business is to void, or clear away, a table after a meal.
Voider (n.) One of the ordinaries, much like the flanch, but less rounded and therefore smaller.
Voiding (n.) The act of one who, or that which, v/ids.
Voiding (n.) That which is voided; that which is ejected or evacuated; a remnant; a fragment.
Voiding (a.) Receiving what is ejected or voided.
Voidness (n.) The quality or state of being void; /mptiness; vacuity; nullity; want of substantiality.
Voir dire () An oath administered to a witness, usually before being sworn in chief, requiring him to speak the truth, or make true answers in reference to matters inquired of, to ascertain his competency to give evidence.
Voiture (n.) A carriage.
Voivode (n.) See Waywode.
Volacious (a.) Apt or fit to fly.
Volador (n.) A flying fish of California (Exoc/tus Californicus): -- called also volator.
Volador (n.) The Atlantic flying gurnard. See under Flying.
Volage (a.) Light; giddy.
Volant (a.) Passing through the air upon wings, or as if upon wings; flying; hence, passing from place to place; current.
Volant (a.) Nimble; light and quick; active; rapid.
Volant (a.) Represented as flying, or having the wings spread; as, an eagle volant.
Volante (n.) A cumbrous two-wheeled pleasure carriage used in Cuba.
Volapuk (n.) Literally, world's speech; the name of an artificial language invented by Johan Martin Schleyer, of Constance, Switzerland, about 1879.
Volapukist (n.) One who is conversant with, or who favors adoption of, Volapuk.
Volar (a.) Of or pertaining to the palm of the hand or the sole of the foot.
Volary (n.) See Volery.
Volatile (a.) Passing through the air on wings, or by the buoyant force of the atmosphere; flying; having the power to fly.
Volatile (a.) Capable of wasting away, or of easily passing into the aeriform state; subject to evaporation.
Volatile (a.) Fig.: Light-hearted; easily affected by circumstances; airy; lively; hence, changeable; fickle; as, a volatile temper.
Volatile (n.) A winged animal; wild fowl; game.
Volatileness (n.) Alt. of Volatility
Volatility (n.) Quality or state of being volatile; disposition to evaporate; changeableness; fickleness.
Volatilizable (a.) Capable of being volatilized.
Volatilization (n.) The act or process of volatilizing, or rendering volatile; the state of being volatilized.
Volatilized (imp. & p. p.) of Volatilize
Volatilizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Volatilize
Volatilize (v. t.) To render volatile; to cause to exhale or evaporate; to cause to pass off in vapor.
Volator (n.) Same as Volador, 1.
Vol-au-vent (n.) A light puff paste, with a raised border, filled, after baking, usually with a ragout of fowl, game, or fish.
Volborthite (n.) A mineral occurring in small six-sided tabular crystals of a green or yellow color. It is a hydrous vanadate of copper and lime.
Volcanian (a.) Volcanic.
Volcanic (a.) Of or pertaining to a volcano or volcanoes; as, volcanic heat.
Volcanic (a.) Produced by a volcano, or, more generally, by igneous agencies; as, volcanic tufa.
Volcanic (a.) Changed or affected by the heat of a volcano.
Volcanically (adv.) Like a volcano.
Volcanicity (n.) Quality or state of being volcanic; volcanic power.
Volcanism (n.) Volcanic power or action; volcanicity.
Volcanist (n.) One versed in the history and phenomena of volcanoes.
Volcanist (n.) One who believes in the igneous, as opposed to the aqueous, origin of the rocks of the earth's crust; a vulcanist. Cf. Neptunist.
Volcanity (n.) The quality or state of being volcanic, or volcanic origin; volcanicity.
Volcanization (n.) The act of volcanizing, or the state of being volcanized; the process of undergoing volcanic heat, and being affected by it.
Volcanized (imp. & p. p.) of Volcanize
Volcanizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Volcanize
Volcanize (v. t.) To subject to, or cause to undergo, volcanic heat, and to be affected by its action.
Volcanoes (pl. ) of Volcano
Volcano (n.) A mountain or hill, usually more or less conical in form, from which lava, cinders, steam, sulphur gases, and the like, are ejected; -- often popularly called a burning mountain.
Vole (n.) A deal at cards that draws all the tricks.
Vole (v. i.) To win all the tricks by a vole.
Vole (n.) Any one of numerous species of micelike rodents belonging to Arvicola and allied genera of the subfamily Arvicolinae. They have a thick head, short ears, and a short hairy tail.
Volery (n.) A flight of birds.
Volery (n.) A large bird cage; an aviary.
Volge (n.) The common sort of people; the crowd; the mob.
Volitable (a.) Volatilizable.
Volitation (n.) The act of flying; flight.
Volitient (a.) Exercising the will; acting from choice; willing, or having power to will.
Volition (n.) The act of willing or choosing; the act of forming a purpose; the exercise of the will.
Volition (n.) The result of an act or exercise of choosing or willing; a state of choice.
Volition (n.) The power of willing or determining; will.
Volitional (a.) Belonging or relating to volition.
Volitive (a.) Of or pertaining to the will; originating in the will; having the power to will.
Volitive (a.) Used in expressing a wish or permission as, volitive proposition.
Volkslieder (pl. ) of Volkslied
Volkslied (n.) A popular song, or national air.
Volleys (pl. ) of Volley
Volley (n.) A flight of missiles, as arrows, bullets, or the like; the simultaneous discharge of a number of small arms.
Volley (n.) A burst or emission of many things at once; as, a volley of words.
Volley (n.) A return of the ball before it touches the ground.
Volley (n.) A sending of the ball full to the top of the wicket.
Volleyed (imp. & p. p.) of Volley
Volleying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Volley
Volley (v. t.) To discharge with, or as with, a volley.
Volley (v. i.) To be thrown out, or discharged, at once; to be discharged in a volley, or as if in a volley; to make a volley or volleys.
Volley (v. i.) To return the ball before it touches the ground.
Volley (v. i.) To send the ball full to the top of the wicket.
Volleyed (a.) Discharged with a sudden burst, or as if in a volley; as, volleyed thunder.
Volow (v. t.) To baptize; -- used in contempt by the Reformers.
Volt (n.) A circular tread; a gait by which a horse going sideways round a center makes two concentric tracks.
Volt (n.) A sudden movement to avoid a thrust.
Volt (n.) The unit of electro-motive force; -- defined by the International Electrical Congress in 1893 and by United States Statute as, that electro-motive force which steadily applied to a conductor whose resistance is one ohm will produce a current of one ampere. It is practically equivalent to / the electro-motive force of a standard Clark's cell at a temperature of 15 C.
Volte (pl. ) of Volta
Volta (n.) A turning; a time; -- chiefly used in phrases signifying that the part is to be repeated one, two, or more times; as, una volta, once. Seconda volta, second time, points to certain modifications in the close of a repeated strain.
Volta-electric (a.) Of or pertaining to voltaic electricity, or voltaism.
Volta-electrometer (n.) An instrument for the exact measurement of electric currents.
Voltage (n.) Electric potential or potential difference, expressed in volts.
Voltagraphy (n.) In electrotypy, the act or art of copying, in metals deposited by electrolytic action, a form or pattern which is made the negative electrode.
Voltaic (a.) Of or pertaining to Alessandro Volta, who first devised apparatus for developing electric currents by chemical action, and established this branch of electric science; discovered by Volta; as, voltaic electricity.
Voltaic (a.) Of or pertaining to voltaism, or voltaic electricity; as, voltaic induction; the voltaic arc.
Voltairean (a.) Of or relating to Voltaire, the French author.
Voltairism (n.) The theories or practice of Voltaire.
Voltaism (n.) That form of electricity which is developed by the chemical action between metals and different liquids; voltaic electricity; also, the science which treats of this form of electricity; -- called also galvanism, from Galvani, on account of his experiments showing the remarkable influence of this agent on animals.
Voltameter (n.) An instrument for measuring the voltaic electricity passing through it, by its effect in decomposing water or some other chemical compound acting as an electrolyte.
Voltaplast (n.) A form of voltaic, or galvanic, battery suitable for use electrotyping.
Voltatype (n.) An electrotype.
Volti (imperative.) Turn, that is, turn over the leaf.
Voltigeur (n.) A tumbler; a leaper or vaulter.
Voltigeur (n.) One of a picked company of irregular riflemen in each regiment of the French infantry.
Voltmeter (n.) An instrument for measuring in volts the differences of potential between different points of an electrical circuit.
Voltzite (n.) An oxysulphide of lead occurring in implanted spherical globules of a yellowish or brownish color; -- called also voltzine.
Volubilate (a.) Alt. of Volubile
Volubile (a.) Turning, or whirling; winding; twining; voluble.
Volubility (n.) The quality or state of being voluble (in any of the senses of the adjective).
Voluble (a.) Easily rolling or turning; easily set in motion; apt to roll; rotating; as, voluble particles of matter.
Voluble (a.) Moving with ease and smoothness in uttering words; of rapid speech; nimble in speaking; glib; as, a flippant, voluble, tongue.
Voluble (a.) Changeable; unstable; fickle.
Voluble (a.) Having the power or habit of turning or twining; as, the voluble stem of hop plants.
Volume (n.) A roll; a scroll; a written document rolled up for keeping or for use, after the manner of the ancients.
Volume (n.) Hence, a collection of printed sheets bound together, whether containing a single work, or a part of a work, or more than one work; a book; a tome; especially, that part of an extended work which is bound up together in one cover; as, a work in four volumes.
Volume (n.) Anything of a rounded or swelling form resembling a roll; a turn; a convolution; a coil.
Volume (n.) Dimensions; compass; space occupied, as measured by cubic units, that is, cubic inches, feet, yards, etc.; mass; bulk; as, the volume of an elephant's body; a volume of gas.
Volume (n.) Amount, fullness, quantity, or caliber of voice or tone.
Volumed (a.) Having the form of a volume, or roil; as, volumed mist.
Volumed (a.) Having volume, or bulk; massive; great.
Volumenometer (n.) An instrument for measuring the volume of a body, especially a solid, by means of the difference in tension caused by its presence and absence in a confined portion of air.
Volumenometry (n.) The method or process of measuring volumes by means of the volumenometer.
Volumescope (n.) An instrument consisting essentially of a glass tube provided with a graduated scale, for exhibiting to the eye the changes of volume of a gas or gaseous mixture resulting from chemical action, and the like.
Volumeter (n.) An instrument for measuring the volumes of gases or liquids by introducing them into a vessel of known capacity.
Volumetric (a.) Of or pertaining to the measurement of volume.
Volumetrical (a.) Volumetric.
Voluminous (a.) Of or pertaining to volume or volumes.
Voluminous (a.) Consisting of many folds, coils, or convolutions.
Voluminous (a.) Of great volume, or bulk; large.
Voluminous (a.) Having written much, or produced many volumes; copious; diffuse; as, a voluminous writer.
Volumist (n.) One who writes a volume; an author.
Voluntarily (adv.) In a voluntary manner; of one's own will; spontaneously.
Voluntariness (n.) The quality or state of being voluntary; spontaneousness; specifically, the quality or state of being free in the exercise of one's will.
Voluntary (v. t.) Proceeding from the will; produced in or by an act of choice.
Voluntary (v. t.) Unconstrained by the interference of another; unimpelled by the influence of another; not prompted or persuaded by another; done of his or its own accord; spontaneous; acting of one's self, or of itself; free.
Voluntary (v. t.) Done by design or intention; intentional; purposed; intended; not accidental; as, if a man kills another by lopping a tree, it is not voluntary manslaughter.
Voluntary (v. t.) Of or pertaining to the will; subject to, or regulated by, the will; as, the voluntary motions of an animal, such as the movements of the leg or arm (in distinction from involuntary motions, such as the movements of the heart); the voluntary muscle fibers, which are the agents in voluntary motion.
Voluntary (v. t.) Endowed with the power of willing; as, man is a voluntary agent.
Voluntary (v. t.) Free; without compulsion; according to the will, consent, or agreement, of a party; without consideration; gratuitous; without valuable consideration.
Voluntary (v. t.) Of or pertaining to voluntaryism; as, a voluntary church, in distinction from an established or state church.
Voluntaries (pl. ) of Voluntary
Voluntary (n.) One who engages in any affair of his own free will; a volunteer.
Voluntary (n.) A piece played by a musician, often extemporarily, according to his fancy; specifically, an organ solo played before, during, or after divine service.
Voluntary (n.) One who advocates voluntaryism.
Voluntaryism (n.) The principle of supporting a religious system and its institutions by voluntary association and effort, rather than by the aid or patronage of the state.
Volunteer (a.) One who enters into, or offers for, any service of his own free will.
Volunteer (a.) One who enters into service voluntarily, but who, when in service, is subject to discipline and regulations like other soldiers; -- opposed to conscript; specifically, a voluntary member of the organized militia of a country as distinguished from the standing army.
Volunteer (a.) A grantee in a voluntary conveyance; one to whom a conveyance is made without valuable consideration; a party, other than a wife or child of the grantor, to whom, or for whose benefit, a voluntary conveyance is made.
Volunteer (a.) Of or pertaining to a volunteer or volunteers; consisting of volunteers; voluntary; as, volunteer companies; volunteer advice.
Volunteered (imp. & p. p.) of Volunteer
Volunteering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Volunteer
Volunteer (v. t.) To offer or bestow voluntarily, or without solicitation or compulsion; as, to volunteer one's services.
Volunteer (v. i.) To enter into, or offer for, any service of one's own free will, without solicitation or compulsion; as, he volunteered in that undertaking.
Volupere (n.) A woman's cap.
Voluptuaries (pl. ) of Voluptuary
Voluptuary (n.) A voluptuous person; one who makes his physical enjoyment his chief care; one addicted to luxury, and the gratification of sensual appetites.
Voluptuary (a.) Voluptuous; luxurious.
Voluptuous (a.) Full of delight or pleasure, especially that of the senses; ministering to sensuous or sensual gratification; exciting sensual desires; luxurious; sensual.
Voluptuous (a.) Given to the enjoyments of luxury and pleasure; indulging to excess in sensual gratifications.
Volupty (n.) Voluptuousness.
Volutas (pl. ) of Voluta
Volutae (pl. ) of Voluta
Voluta (n.) Any one of numerous species of large, handsome marine gastropods belonging to Voluta and allied genera.
Volutation (n.) A rolling of a body; a wallowing.
Volute (n.) A spiral scroll which forms the chief feature of the Ionic capital, and which, on a much smaller scale, is a feature in the Corinthian and Composite capitals. See Illust. of Capital, also Helix, and Stale.
Volute (n.) A spiral turn, as in certain shells.
Volute (n.) Any voluta.
Voluted (a.) Having a volute, or spiral scroll.
Volution (n.) A spiral turn or wreath.
Volution (n.) A whorl of a spiral shell.
Volva (n.) A saclike envelope of certain fungi, which bursts open as the plant develops.
Volvox (n.) A genus of minute, pale-green, globular, organisms, about one fiftieth of an inch in diameter, found rolling through water, the motion being produced by minute colorless cilia. It has been considered as belonging to the flagellate Infusoria, but is now referred to the vegetable kingdom, and each globule is considered a colony of many individuals. The commonest species is Volvox globator, often called globe animalcule.
Volvulus (n.) The spasmodic contraction of the intestines which causes colic.
Volvulus (n.) Any twisting or displacement of the intestines causing obstruction; ileus. See Ileus.
Volyer (n.) A lurcher.
Vomer (n.) A bone, or one of a pair of bones, beneath the ethmoid region of the skull, forming a part a part of the partition between the nostrils in man and other mammals.
Vomer (n.) The pygostyle.
Vomerine (a.) Of or pertaining to the vomer.
Vomica (n.) An abscess cavity in the lungs.
Vomica (n.) An abscess in any other parenchymatous organ.
Vomicine (n.) See Brucine.
Vomic nut () Same as Nux vomica.
Vomited (imp. & p. p.) of Vomit
Vomiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vomit
Vomit (n.) To eject the contents of the stomach by the mouth; to puke; to spew.
Vomit (v. t.) To throw up; to eject from the stomach through the mouth; to disgorge; to puke; to spew out; -- often followed by up or out.
Vomit (v. t.) Hence, to eject from any hollow place; to belch forth; to emit; to throw forth; as, volcanoes vomit flame, stones, etc.
Vomit (n.) Matter that is vomited; esp., matter ejected from the stomach through the mouth.
Vomit (n.) That which excites vomiting; an emetic.
Vomiting (n.) The spasmodic ejection of matter from the stomach through the mouth.
Vomition (n.) The act or power of vomiting.
Vomitive (a.) Causing the ejection of matter from the stomach; emetic.
Vomito (n.) The yellow fever in its worst form, when it is usually attended with black vomit. See Black vomit.
Vomitory (a.) Causing vomiting; emetic; vomitive.
Vomitories (pl. ) of Vomitory
Vomitory (n.) An emetic; a vomit.
Vomitory (n.) A principal door of a large ancient building, as of an amphitheater.
Vomiturition (n.) An ineffectual attempt to vomit.
Vomiturition (n.) The vomiting of but little matter; also, that vomiting which is effected with little effort.
Vondsira (n.) Same as Vansire.
Voodoo (n.) See Voodooism.
Voodoo (n.) One who practices voodooism; a negro sorcerer.
Voodoo (a.) Of or pertaining to voodooism, or a voodoo; as, voodoo incantations.
Voodooism (n.) A degraded form of superstition and sorcery, said to include human sacrifices and cannibalism in some of its rites. It is prevalent among the negroes of Hayti, and to some extent in the United States, and is regarded as a relic of African barbarism.
Voracious (a.) Greedy in eating; very hungry; eager to devour or swallow; ravenous; gluttonous; edacious; rapacious; as, a voracious man or appetite; a voracious gulf or whirlpool.
Voracity (n.) The quality of being voracious; voraciousness.
Voraginous (a.) Pertaining to a gulf; full of gulfs; hence, devouring.
Vortexes (pl. ) of Vortex
Vortices (pl. ) of Vortex
Vortex (n.) A mass of fluid, especially of a liquid, having a whirling or circular motion tending to form a cavity or vacuum in the center of the circle, and to draw in towards the center bodies subject to its action; the form assumed by a fluid in such motion; a whirlpool; an eddy.
Vortex (n.) A supposed collection of particles of very subtile matter, endowed with a rapid rotary motion around an axis which was also the axis of a sun or a planet. Descartes attempted to account for the formation of the universe, and the movements of the bodies composing it, by a theory of vortices.
Vortex (n.) Any one of numerous species of small Turbellaria belonging to Vortex and allied genera. See Illustration in Appendix.
Vortical (a.) Of or pertaining to a vortex or vortexes; resembling a vortex in form or motion; whirling; as, a vortical motion.
Vorticel (n.) A vorticella.
Vorticellas (pl. ) of Vorticella
Vorticellae (pl. ) of Vorticella
Vorticella (n.) Any one of numerous species of ciliated Infusoria belonging to Vorticella and many other genera of the family Vorticellidae. They have a more or less bell-shaped body with a circle of vibrating cilia around the oral disk. Most of the species have slender, contractile stems, either simple or branched.
Vorticose (a.) Vortical; whirling; as, a vorticose motion.
Vortiginous (a.) Moving rapidly round a center; vortical.
Votaress (n.) A woman who is a votary.
Votarist (n.) A votary.
Votary (a.) Consecrated by a vow or promise; consequent on a vow; devoted; promised.
Votaries (pl. ) of Votary
Votary (n.) One devoted, consecrated, or engaged by a vow or promise; hence, especially, one devoted, given, or addicted, to some particular service, worship, study, or state of life.
Vote (n.) An ardent wish or desire; a vow; a prayer.
Vote (n.) A wish, choice, or opinion, of a person or a body of persons, expressed in some received and authorized way; the expression of a wish, desire, will, preference, or choice, in regard to any measure proposed, in which the person voting has an interest in common with others, either in electing a person to office, or in passing laws, rules, regulations, etc.; suffrage.
Vote (n.) That by means of which will or preference is expressed in elections, or in deciding propositions; voice; a ballot; a ticket; as, a written vote.
Vote (n.) Expression of judgment or will by a majority; legal decision by some expression of the minds of a number; as, the vote was unanimous; a vote of confidence.
Vote (n.) Votes, collectively; as, the Tory vote; the labor vote.
Voted (imp. & p. p.) of Vote
Voting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vote
Vote (v. i.) To express or signify the mind, will, or preference, either viva voce, or by ballot, or by other authorized means, as in electing persons to office, in passing laws, regulations, etc., or in deciding on any proposition in which one has an interest with others.
Vote (v. t.) To choose by suffrage; to elec/; as, to vote a candidate into office.
Vote (v. t.) To enact, establish, grant, determine, etc., by a formal vote; as, the legislature voted the resolution.
Vote (v. t.) To declare by general opinion or common consent, as if by a vote; as, he was voted a bore.
Vote (v. t.) To condemn; to devote; to doom.
Voter (n.) One who votes; one who has a legal right to vote, or give his suffrage; an elector; a suffragist; as, an independent voter.
Voting () a. & n. from Vote, v.
Votist (n.) One who makes a vow.
Votive (a.) Given by vow, or in fulfillment of a vow; consecrated by a vow; devoted; as, votive offerings; a votive tablet.
Votress (n.) A votaress.
Vouched (imp. & p. p.) of Vouch
Vouching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vouch
Vouch (v. t.) To call; to summon.
Vouch (v. t.) To call upon to witness; to obtest.
Vouch (v. t.) To warrant; to maintain by affirmations; to attest; to affirm; to avouch.
Vouch (v. t.) To back; to support; to confirm; to establish.
Vouch (v. t.) To call into court to warrant and defend, or to make good a warranty of title.
Vouch (v. i.) To bear witness; to give testimony or full attestation.
Vouch (v. i.) To assert; to aver; to declare.
Vouch (n.) Warrant; attestation.
Vouchee (n.) The person who is vouched, or called into court to support or make good his warranty of title in the process of common recovery.
Voucher (n.) One who vouches, or gives witness or full attestation, to anything.
Voucher (n.) A book, paper, or document which serves to vouch the truth of accounts, or to confirm and establish facts of any kind; also, any acquittance or receipt showing the payment of a debt; as, the merchant's books are his vouchers for the correctness of his accounts; notes, bonds, receipts, and other writings, are used as vouchers in proving facts.
Voucher (n.) The act of calling in a person to make good his warranty of title in the old form of action for the recovery of lands.
Voucher (n.) The tenant in a writ of right; one who calls in another to establish his warranty of title. In common recoveries, there may be a single voucher or double vouchers.
Vouchment (n.) A solemn assertion.
Vouch/or (n.) Same as Voucher, 3 (b).
Vouchsafed (imp. & p. p.) of Vouchsafe
Vouchsafing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vouchsafe
Vouchsafe (v. t.) To condescend to grant; to concede; to bestow.
Vouchsafe (v. t.) To receive or accept in condescension.
Vouchsafe (v. i.) To condescend; to deign; to yield; to descend or stoop.
Vouchsafement (n.) The act of vouchsafing, or that which is vouchsafed; a gift or grant in condescension.
Voussoir (n.) One of the wedgelike stones of which an arch is composed.
Vow (n.) A solemn promise made to God, or to some deity; an act by which one consecrates or devotes himself, absolutely or conditionally, wholly or in part, for a longer or shorter time, to some act, service, or condition; a devotion of one's possessions; as, a baptismal vow; a vow of poverty.
Vow (n.) Specifically, a promise of fidelity; a pledge of love or affection; as, the marriage vow.
Vowed (imp. & p. p.) of Vow
Vowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vow
Vow (n.) To give, consecrate, or dedicate to God, or to some deity, by a solemn promise; to devote; to promise solemnly.
Vow (n.) To assert solemnly; to asseverate.
Vow (v. i.) To make a vow, or solemn promise.
Vowel (n.) A vocal, or sometimes a whispered, sound modified by resonance in the oral passage, the peculiar resonance in each case giving to each several vowel its distinctive character or quality as a sound of speech; -- distinguished from a consonant in that the latter, whether made with or without vocality, derives its character in every case from some kind of obstructive action by the mouth organs. Also, a letter or character which represents such a sound. See Guide to Pronunciation, // 5, 146-149.
Vowel (a.) Of or pertaining to a vowel; vocal.
Voweled (a.) Furnished with vowels.
Vowelish (a.) Of the nature of a vowel.
Vowelism (n.) The use of vowels.
Vowelize (v. t.) To give the quality, sound, or office of a vowel to.
Vower (n.) One who makes a vow.
Vow-fellow (n.) One bound by the same vow as another.
Vox (n.) A voice.
Voyage (n.) Formerly, a passage either by sea or land; a journey, in general; but not chiefly limited to a passing by sea or water from one place, port, or country, to another; especially, a passing or journey by water to a distant place or country.
Voyage (n.) The act or practice of traveling.
Voyage (n.) Course; way.
Voyaged (imp. & p. p.) of Voyage
Voyaging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Voyage
Voyage (v. i.) To take a voyage; especially, to sail or pass by water.
Voyage (v. t.) To travel; to pass over; to traverse.
Voyageable (a.) That may be sailed over, as water or air; navigable.
Voyager (n.) One who voyages; one who sails or passes by sea or water.
Voyageur (n.) A traveler; -- applied in Canada to a man employed by the fur companies in transporting goods by the rivers and across the land, to and from the remote stations in the Northwest.
Voyol (n.) See Viol, 2.
Voyol (n.) The block through which a messenger passes.
Vraisemblance (n.) The appearance of truth; verisimilitude.
Vugg (n.) Alt. of Vugh
Vugh (n.) A cavity in a lode; -- called also vogle.
Vulcan (n.) The god of fire, who presided over the working of metals; -- answering to the Greek Hephaestus.
Vulcanian (a.) Of or pertaining to Vulcan; made by Vulcan; hence, of or pertaining to works in iron or other metals.
Vulcanian (a.) Volcanic.
Vulcanic (a.) Of or pertaining to Vulcan; made by Vulcan; Vulcanian.
Vulcanic (a.) Of or pertaining to volcanoes; specifically, relating to the geological theory of the Vulcanists, or Plutonists.
Vulcanicity (n.) Volcanicity.
Vulcanism (n.) Volcanism.
Vulcanist (n.) A volcanist.
Vulcanite (n.) Hard rubber produced by vulcanizing with a large proportion of sulphur.
Vulcanization (n.) The act or process of imparting to caoutchouc, gutta-percha, or the like, greater elasticity, durability, or hardness by heating with sulphur under pressure.
Vulcanized (imp. & p. p.) of Vulcanize
Vulcanizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vulcanize
Vulcanize (v. t.) To change the properties of, as caoutchouc, or India rubber, by the process of vulcanization.
Vulcanizer (n.) One who, or that which, vulcanizes; esp., an apparatus for vulcanizing caoutchouc.
Vulcano (n.) A volcano.
Vulcanology (n.) The science which treats of phenomena due to plutonic action, as in volcanoes, hot springs, etc.
Vulgar (a.) Of or pertaining to the mass, or multitude, of people; common; general; ordinary; public; hence, in general use; vernacular.
Vulgar (a.) Belonging or relating to the common people, as distinguished from the cultivated or educated; pertaining to common life; plebeian; not select or distinguished; hence, sometimes, of little or no value.
Vulgar (a.) Hence, lacking cultivation or refinement; rustic; boorish; also, offensive to good taste or refined feelings; low; coarse; mean; base; as, vulgar men, minds, language, or manners.
Vulgar (n.) One of the common people; a vulgar person.
Vulgar (n.) The vernacular, or common language.
Vulgarian (n.) A vulgar person; one who has vulgar ideas. Used also adjectively.
Vulgarism (n.) Grossness; rudeness; vulgarity.
Vulgarism (n.) A vulgar phrase or expression.
Vulgarity (n.) The quality or state of being vulgar; mean condition of life; the state of the lower classes of society.
Vulgarity (n.) Grossness or clownishness of manners of language; absence of refinement; coarseness.
Vulgarization (n.) The act or process of making vulgar, or common.
Vulgarized (imp. & p. p.) of Vulgarize
Vulgarizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Vulgarize
Vulgarize (v. t. & i.) To make vulgar, or common.
Vulgarly (adv.) In a vulgar manner.
Vulgarness (n.) The quality of being vulgar.
Vulgate (a.) An ancient Latin version of the Scripture, and the only version which the Roman Church admits to be authentic; -- so called from its common use in the Latin Church.
Vulgate (a.) Of or pertaining to the Vulgate, or the old Latin version of the Scriptures.
Vulnerability (n.) The quality or state of being vulnerable; vulnerableness.
Vulnerable (a.) Capable of being wounded; susceptible of wounds or external injuries; as, a vulnerable body.
Vulnerable (a.) Liable to injury; subject to be affected injuriously; assailable; as, a vulnerable reputation.
Vulnerableness (n.) The quality or state of being vulnerable; vulnerability.
Vulnerary (a.) Useful in healing wounds; adapted to the cure of external injuries; as, vulnerary plants or potions.
Vulnerary (n.) A vulnerary remedy.
Vulnerate (v. t.) To wound; to hurt.
Vulneration (n.) The act of wounding, or the state of being wounded.
Vulnerose (a.) Full of wounds; wounded.
Vulnific (a.) Alt. of Vulnifical
Vulnifical (a.) Causing wounds; inflicting wounds; wounding.
Vulnose (a.) Having wounds; vulnerose.
Vulpes (n.) A genus of Carnivora including the foxes.
Vulpic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid obtained from a lichen (Cetraria vulpina) as a yellow or red crystalline substance which on decomposition yields pulvinic acid.
Vulpicide (n.) One who kills a fox, except in hunting; also, the act of so killing a fox.
Vulpine (a.) Of or pertaining to the fox; resembling the fox; foxy; cunning; crafty; artful.
Vulpinic (a.) Same as Vulpic.
Vulpinism (n.) The quality of being cunning like the fox; craft; artfulness.
Vulpinite (n.) A scaly granular variety of anhydrite of a grayish white color, used for ornamental purposes.
Vultern (n.) The brush turkey (Talegallus Lathami) of Australia. See Brush turkey.
Vulture (n.) Any one of numerous species of rapacious birds belonging to Vultur, Cathartes, Catharista, and various other genera of the family Vulturidae.
Vulturine (a.) Of or pertaining to a vulture; resembling a vulture in qualities or looks; as, the vulturine sea eagle (Gypohierax Angolensis); vulturine rapacity.
Vulturish (a.) Vulturous.
Vulturism (n.) The quality or state of being like a vulture; rapaciousness.
Vulturous (a.) Like a vulture; rapacious.
Vulva (n.) The external parts of the female genital organs; sometimes, the opening between the projecting parts of the external organs.
Vulva (n.) The orifice of the oviduct of an insect or other invertebrate.
Vulviform (a.) Like a cleft with projecting edges.
Vulvitis (n.) Inflammation of the vulva.
Vulvo-uterine (a.) Pertaining both to the vulva and the uterus.
Vulvovaginal (a.) Pertaining both to the vulva and the vagina.
Vyce (n.) A kind of clamp with gimlet points for holding a barrel head while the staves are being closed around it.
Vying () a. & n. from Vie.
W () the twenty-third letter of the English alphabet, is usually a consonant, but sometimes it is a vowel, forming the second element of certain diphthongs, as in few, how. It takes its written form and its name from the repetition of a V, this being the original form of the Roman capital letter which we call U. Etymologically it is most related to v and u. See V, and U. Some of the uneducated classes in England, especially in London, confuse w and v, substituting the one for the other, as weal for veal, and veal for weal; wine for vine, and vine for wine, etc. See Guide to Pronunciation, // 266-268.
Waag (n.) The grivet.
Waahoo (n.) The burning bush; -- said to be called after a quack medicine made from it.
Wabble (v. i.) To move staggeringly or unsteadily from one side to the other; to vacillate; to move the manner of a rotating disk when the axis of rotation is inclined to that of the disk; -- said of a turning or whirling body; as, a top wabbles; a buzz saw wabbles.
Wabble (n.) A hobbling, unequal motion, as of a wheel unevenly hung; a staggering to and fro.
Wabbly (a.) Inclined to wabble; wabbling.
Wacke (n.) Alt. of Wacky
Wacky (n.) A soft, earthy, dark-colored rock or clay derived from the alteration of basalt.
Wad (n.) Woad.
Wad (n.) A little mass, tuft, or bundle, as of hay or tow.
Wad (n.) Specifically: A little mass of some soft or flexible material, such as hay, straw, tow, paper, or old rope yarn, used for retaining a charge of powder in a gun, or for keeping the powder and shot close; also, to diminish or avoid the effects of windage. Also, by extension, a dusk of felt, pasteboard, etc., serving a similar purpose.
Wad (n.) A soft mass, especially of some loose, fibrous substance, used for various purposes, as for stopping an aperture, padding a garment, etc.
Waded (imp. & p. p.) of Wad
Wadding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wad
Wad (v. t.) To form into a mass, or wad, or into wadding; as, to wad tow or cotton.
Wad (v. t.) To insert or crowd a wad into; as, to wad a gun; also, to stuff or line with some soft substance, or wadding, like cotton; as, to wad a cloak.
Wad (n.) Alt. of Wadd
Wadd (n.) An earthy oxide of manganese, or mixture of different oxides and water, with some oxide of iron, and often silica, alumina, lime, or baryta; black ocher. There are several varieties.
Wadd (n.) Plumbago, or black lead.
Wadding (n.) A wad, or the materials for wads; any pliable substance of which wads may be made.
Wadding (n.) Any soft stuff of loose texture, used for stuffing or padding garments; esp., sheets of carded cotton prepared for the purpose.
Waddled (imp. & p. p.) of Waddle
Waddling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Waddle
Waddle (v. i.) To walk with short steps, swaying the body from one side to the other, like a duck or very fat person; to move clumsily and totteringly along; to toddle; to stumble; as, a child waddles when he begins to walk; a goose waddles.
Waddle (v. t.) To trample or tread down, as high grass, by walking through it.
Waddler (n.) One who, or that which, waddles.
Waddlingly (adv.) In a waddling manner.
Wade (n.) Woad.
Waded (imp. & p. p.) of Wade
Wading (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wade
Wade (v. i.) To go; to move forward.
Wade (v. i.) To walk in a substance that yields to the feet; to move, sinking at each step, as in water, mud, sand, etc.
Wade (v. i.) Hence, to move with difficulty or labor; to proceed /lowly among objects or circumstances that constantly /inder or embarrass; as, to wade through a dull book.
Wade (v. t.) To pass or cross by wading; as, he waded /he rivers and swamps.
Wade (n.) The act of wading.
Wader (n.) One who, or that which, wades.
Wader (n.) Any long-legged bird that wades in the water in search of food, especially any species of limicoline or grallatorial birds; -- called also wading bird. See Illust. g, under Aves.
Wading () a. & n. from Wade, v.
Wadmol (n.) A coarse, hairy, woolen cloth, formerly used for garments by the poor, and for various other purposes.
Wadset (n.) A kind of pledge or mortgage.
Wadsetter (n.) One who holds by a wadset.
Wadies (pl. ) of Wady
Wady (n.) A ravine through which a brook flows; the channel of a water course, which is dry except in the rainy season.
Wae (n.) A wave.
Waeg (n.) The kittiwake.
Wafer (n.) A thin cake made of flour and other ingredients.
Wafer (n.) A thin cake or piece of bread (commonly unleavened, circular, and stamped with a crucifix or with the sacred monogram) used in the Eucharist, as in the Roman Catholic Church.
Wafer (n.) An adhesive disk of dried paste, made of flour, gelatin, isinglass, or the like, and coloring matter, -- used in sealing letters and other documents.
Wafered (imp. & p. p.) of Wafer
Wafering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wafer
Wafer (v. t.) To seal or close with a wafer.
Waferer (n.) A dealer in the cakes called wafers; a confectioner.
Waffle (n.) A thin cake baked and then rolled; a wafer.
Waffle (n.) A soft indented cake cooked in a waffle iron.
Wafted (imp. & p. p.) of Waft
Wafting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Waft
Waft (v. t.) To give notice to by waving something; to wave the hand to; to beckon.
Waft (v. t.) To cause to move or go in a wavy manner, or by the impulse of waves, as of water or air; to bear along on a buoyant medium; as, a balloon was wafted over the channel.
Waft (v. t.) To cause to float; to keep from sinking; to buoy.
Waft (v. i.) To be moved, or to pass, on a buoyant medium; to float.
Waft (n.) A wave or current of wind.
Waft (n.) A signal made by waving something, as a flag, in the air.
Waft (n.) An unpleasant flavor.
Waft (n.) A knot, or stop, in the middle of a flag.
Waftage (n.) Conveyance on a buoyant medium, as air or water.
Wafter (n.) One who, or that which, wafts.
Wafter (n.) A boat for passage.
Wafture (n.) The act of waving; a wavelike motion; a waft.
Wagged (imp. & p. p.) of Wag
Wagging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wag
Wag (v. t.) To move one way and the other with quick turns; to shake to and fro; to move vibratingly; to cause to vibrate, as a part of the body; as, to wag the head.
Wag (v. i.) To move one way and the other; to be shaken to and fro; to vibrate.
Wag (v. i.) To be in action or motion; to move; to get along; to progress; to stir.
Wag (v. i.) To go; to depart; to pack oft.
Wag (v.) The act of wagging; a shake; as, a wag of the head.
Wag (v.) A man full of sport and humor; a ludicrous fellow; a humorist; a wit; a joker.
Wagati (n.) A small East Indian wild cat (Felis wagati), regarded by some as a variety of the leopard cat.
Waged (imp. & p. p.) of Wage
Waging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wage
Wage (v. t.) To pledge; to hazard on the event of a contest; to stake; to bet, to lay; to wager; as, to wage a dollar.
Wage (v. t.) To expose one's self to, as a risk; to incur, as a danger; to venture; to hazard.
Wage (v. t.) To engage in, as a contest, as if by previous gage or pledge; to carry on, as a war.
Wage (v. t.) To adventure, or lay out, for hire or reward; to hire out.
Wage (v. t.) To put upon wages; to hire; to employ; to pay wages to.
Wage (v. t.) To give security for the performance of.
Wage (v. i.) To bind one's self; to engage.
Wage (v. t.) That which is staked or ventured; that for which one incurs risk or danger; prize; gage.
Wage (v. t.) That for which one labors; meed; reward; stipulated payment for service performed; hire; pay; compensation; -- at present generally used in the plural. See Wages.
Wagel (n.) See Waggel.
Wagenboom (n.) A south African proteaceous tree (Protea grandiflora); also, its tough wood, used for making wagon wheels.
Wager (v. t.) Something deposited, laid, or hazarded on the event of a contest or an unsettled question; a bet; a stake; a pledge.
Wager (v. t.) A contract by which two parties or more agree that a certain sum of money, or other thing, shall be paid or delivered to one of them, on the happening or not happening of an uncertain event.
Wager (v. t.) That on which bets are laid; the subject of a bet.
Wagered (imp. & p. p.) of Wager
Wagering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wager
Wager (v. t.) To hazard on the issue of a contest, or on some question that is to be decided, or on some casualty; to lay; to stake; to bet.
Wager (v. i.) To make a bet; to lay a wager.
Wagerer (n.) One who wagers, or lays a bet.
Wagering (a.) Hazarding; pertaining to the act of one who wagers.
Wages (n.) A compensation given to a hired person for services; price paid for labor; recompense; hire. See Wage, n., 2.
Waggel (n.) The young of the great black-backed gull (Larus marinus), formerly considered a distinct species.
Waggeries (pl. ) of Waggery
Waggery (n.) The manner or action of a wag; mischievous merriment; sportive trick or gayety; good-humored sarcasm; pleasantry; jocularity; as, the waggery of a schoolboy.
Waggie (n.) The pied wagtail.
Waggish (a.) Like a wag; mischievous in sport; roguish in merriment or good humor; frolicsome.
Waggish (a.) Done, made, or laid in waggery or for sport; sportive; humorous; as, a waggish trick.
Waggle (v. i.) To reel, sway, or move from side to side; to move with a wagging motion; to waddle.
Waggled (imp. & p. p.) of Waggle
Waggling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Waggle
Waggle (v. t.) To move frequently one way and the other; to wag; as, a bird waggles his tail.
Wag-halter (n.) One who moves or wears a halter; one likely to be hanged.
Wagnerite (n.) A fluophosphate of magnesia, occurring in yellowish crystals, and also in massive forms.
Wagon (n.) A wheeled carriage; a vehicle on four wheels, and usually drawn by horses; especially, one used for carrying freight or merchandise.
Wagon (n.) A freight car on a railway.
Wagon (n.) A chariot
Wagon (n.) The Dipper, or Charles's Wain.
Wagoned (imp. & p. p.) of Wagon
Wagoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wagon
Wagon (v. t.) To transport in a wagon or wagons; as, goods are wagoned from city to city.
Wagon (v. i.) To wagon goods as a business; as, the man wagons between Philadelphia and its suburbs.
Wagonage (n.) Money paid for carriage or conveyance in wagon.
Wagonage (n.) A collection of wagons; wagons, collectively.
Wagoner (n.) One who conducts a wagon; one whose business it is to drive a wagon.
Wagoner (n.) The constellation Charles's Wain, or Ursa Major. See Ursa major, under Ursa.
Wagonette (n.) A kind of pleasure wagon, uncovered and with seats extended along the sides, designed to carry six or eight persons besides the driver.
Wagonfuls (pl. ) of Wagonful
Wagonful (n.) As much as a wagon will hold; enough to fill a wagon; a wagonload.
Wagon-headed (a.) Having a top, or head, shaped like the top of a covered wagon, or resembling in section or outline an inverted U, thus /; as, a wagonheaded ceiling.
Wagonload (n.) Same as Wagonful.
Wagon-roofed (a.) Having a roof, or top, shaped like an inverted U; wagon-headed.
Wagonry (n.) Conveyance by means of a wagon or wagons.
Wagonwright (n.) One who makes wagons.
Wagtail (n.) Any one of many species of Old World singing birds belonging to Motacilla and several allied genera of the family Motacillidae. They have the habit of constantly jerking their long tails up and down, whence the name.
Wah (n.) The panda.
Wahabee (n.) A follower of Abdel Wahab (b. 1691; d. 1787), a reformer of Mohammedanism. His doctrines prevail particularly among the Bedouins, and the sect, though checked in its influence, extends to most parts of Arabia, and also into India.
Waid (a.) Oppressed with weight; crushed; weighed down.
Waif (n.) Goods found of which the owner is not known; originally, such goods as a pursued thief threw away to prevent being apprehended, which belonged to the king unless the owner made pursuit of the felon, took him, and brought him to justice.
Waif (n.) Hence, anything found, or without an owner; that which comes along, as it were, by chance.
Waif (n.) A wanderer; a castaway; a stray; a homeless child.
Waift (n.) A waif.
Wail (v. t.) To choose; to select.
Wailed (imp. & p. p.) of Wail
Wailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wail
Wail (v. t.) To lament; to bewail; to grieve over; as, to wail one's death.
Wail (v. i.) To express sorrow audibly; to make mournful outcry; to weep.
Wail (n.) Loud weeping; violent lamentation; wailing.
Wailer (n.) One who wails or laments.
Waileress (n.) A woman who wails.
Wailful (a.) Sorrowful; mournful.
Wailingly (adv.) In a wailing manner.
Wailment (n.) Lamentation; loud weeping; wailing.
Waiment (v. & n.) See Wayment.
Wain (n.) A four-wheeled vehicle for the transportation of goods, produce, etc.; a wagon.
Wain (n.) A chariot.
Wainable (a.) Capable of being plowed or cultivated; arable; tillable.
Wainage (n.) A finding of carriages, carts, etc., for the transportation of goods, produce, etc.
Wainage (n.) See Gainage, a.
Wainbote (n.) See Cartbote. See also the Note under Bote.
Wainscot (n.) Oaken timber or boarding.
Wainscot (n.) A wooden lining or boarding of the walls of apartments, usually made in panels.
Wainscot (n.) Any one of numerous species of European moths of the family Leucanidae.
Wainscoted (imp. & p. p.) of Wainscot
Wainscoting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wainscot
Wainscot (v. t.) To line with boards or panelwork, or as if with panelwork; as, to wainscot a hall.
Wainscoting (n.) The act or occupation of covering or lining with boards in panel.
Wainscoting (n.) The material used to wainscot a house, or the wainscot as a whole; panelwork.
Wainwright (n.) Same as Wagonwright.
Wair (n.) A piece of plank two yard/ long and a foot broad.
Waist (n.) That part of the human body which is immediately below the ribs or thorax; the small part of the body between the thorax and hips.
Waist (n.) Hence, the middle part of other bodies; especially (Naut.), that part of a vessel's deck, bulwarks, etc., which is between the quarter-deck and the forecastle; the middle part of the ship.
Waist (n.) A garment, or part of a garment, which covers the body from the neck or shoulders to the waist line.
Waist (n.) A girdle or belt for the waist.
Waistband (n.) The band which encompasses the waist; esp., one on the upper part of breeches, trousers, pantaloons, skirts, or the like.
Waistband (n.) A sash worn by women around the waist.
Waistcloth (n.) A cloth or wrapper worn about the waist; by extension, such a garment worn about the hips and passing between the thighs.
Waistcloth (n.) A covering of canvas or tarpaulin for the hammocks, stowed on the nettings, between the quarterdeck and the forecastle.
Waistcoat (n.) A short, sleeveless coat or garment for men, worn under the coat, extending no lower than the hips, and covering the waist; a vest.
Waistcoat (n.) A garment occasionally worn by women as a part of fashionable costume.
Waistcoateer (n.) One wearing a waistcoat; esp., a woman wearing one uncovered, or thought fit for such a habit; hence, a loose woman; strumpet.
Waistcoating (n.) A fabric designed for waistcoats; esp., one in which there is a pattern, differently colored yarns being used.
Waister (n.) A seaman, usually a green hand or a broken-down man, stationed in the waist of a vessel of war.
Waited (imp. & p. p.) of Wait
Waiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wait
Wait (v. i.) To watch; to observe; to take notice.
Wait (v. i.) To stay or rest in expectation; to stop or remain stationary till the arrival of some person or event; to rest in patience; to stay; not to depart.
Wait (v. t.) To stay for; to rest or remain stationary in expectation of; to await; as, to wait orders.
Wait (v. t.) To attend as a consequence; to follow upon; to accompany; to await.
Wait (v. t.) To attend on; to accompany; especially, to attend with ceremony or respect.
Wait (v. t.) To cause to wait; to defer; to postpone; -- said of a meal; as, to wait dinner.
Wait (v. i.) The act of waiting; a delay; a halt.
Wait (v. i.) Ambush.
Wait (v. i.) One who watches; a watchman.
Wait (v. i.) Hautboys, or oboes, played by town musicians; not used in the singular.
Wait (v. i.) Musicians who sing or play at night or in the early morning, especially at Christmas time; serenaders; musical watchmen.
Waiter (n.) One who, or that which, waits; an attendant; a servant in attendance, esp. at table.
Waiter (n.) A vessel or tray on which something is carried, as dishes, etc.; a salver.
Waiting () a. & n. from Wait, v.
Waitingly (adv.) By waiting.
Waitress (n.) A female waiter or attendant; a waiting maid or waiting woman.
Waive (v. t.) A waif; a castaway.
Waive (v. t.) A woman put out of the protection of the law. See Waive, v. t., 3 (b), and the Note.
Waived (imp. & p. p.) of Waive
Waiving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Waive
Waive (v. t.) To relinquish; to give up claim to; not to insist on or claim; to refuse; to forego.
Waive (v. t.) To throw away; to cast off; to reject; to desert.
Waive (v. t.) To throw away; to relinquish voluntarily, as a right which one may enforce if he chooses.
Waive (v. t.) To desert; to abandon.
Waive (v. i.) To turn aside; to recede.
Waiver (n.) The act of waiving, or not insisting on, some right, claim, or privilege.
Waivure (n.) See Waiver.
Waiwode (n.) See Waywode.
Wake (n.) The track left by a vessel in the water; by extension, any track; as, the wake of an army.
Waked (imp. & p. p.) of Wake
Woke () of Wake
Waking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wake
Wake (v. i.) To be or to continue awake; to watch; not to sleep.
Wake (v. i.) To sit up late festive purposes; to hold a night revel.
Wake (v. i.) To be excited or roused from sleep; to awake; to be awakened; to cease to sleep; -- often with up.
Wake (v. i.) To be exited or roused up; to be stirred up from a dormant, torpid, or inactive state; to be active.
Wake (v. t.) To rouse from sleep; to awake.
Wake (v. t.) To put in motion or action; to arouse; to excite.
Wake (v. t.) To bring to life again, as if from the sleep of death; to reanimate; to revive.
Wake (v. t.) To watch, or sit up with, at night, as a dead body.
Wake (n.) The act of waking, or being awaked; also, the state of being awake.
Wake (n.) The state of forbearing sleep, especially for solemn or festive purposes; a vigil.
Wake (n.) An annual parish festival formerly held in commemoration of the dedication of a church. Originally, prayers were said on the evening preceding, and hymns were sung during the night, in the church; subsequently, these vigils were discontinued, and the day itself, often with succeeding days, was occupied in rural pastimes and exercises, attended by eating and drinking, often to excess.
Wake (n.) The sitting up of persons with a dead body, often attended with a degree of festivity, chiefly among the Irish.
Wakeful (a.) Not sleeping; indisposed to sleep; watchful; vigilant.
Wakened (imp. & p. pr.) of Waken
Wakening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Waken
Waken (v. i.) To wake; to cease to sleep; to be awakened.
Waken (v. t.) To excite or rouse from sleep; to wake; to awake; to awaken.
Waken (v. t.) To excite; to rouse; to move to action; to awaken.
Wakener (n.) One who wakens.
Wakening (n.) The act of one who wakens; esp., the act of ceasing to sleep; an awakening.
Wakening (n.) The revival of an action.
Waker (n.) One who wakes.
Wake-robin (n.) Any plant of the genus Arum, especially, in England, the cuckoopint (Arum maculatum).
Waketime (n.) Time during which one is awake.
Waking (n.) The act of waking, or the state or period of being awake.
Waking (n.) A watch; a watching.
Walaway (interj.) See Welaway.
Wald (n.) A forest; -- used as a termination of names. See Weald.
Waldenses (n. pl.) A sect of dissenters from the ecclesiastical system of the Roman Catholic Church, who in the 13th century were driven by persecution to the valleys of Piedmont, where the sect survives. They profess substantially Protestant principles.
Waldensian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Waldenses.
Waldensian (n.) One Holding the Waldensian doctrines.
Waldgrave (n.) In the old German empire, the head forest keeper.
Waldheimia (n.) A genus of brachiopods of which many species are found in the fossil state. A few still exist in the deep sea.
Wale (n.) A streak or mark made on the skin by a rod or whip; a stripe; a wheal. See Wheal.
Wale (n.) A ridge or streak rising above the surface, as of cloth; hence, the texture of cloth.
Wale (n.) A timber bolted to a row of piles to secure them together and in position.
Wale (n.) Certain sets or strakes of the outside planking of a vessel; as, the main wales, or the strakes of planking under the port sills of the gun deck; channel wales, or those along the spar deck, etc.
Wale (n.) A wale knot, or wall knot.
Wale (v. t.) To mark with wales, or stripes.
Wale (v. t.) To choose; to select; specifically (Mining), to pick out the refuse of (coal) by hand, in order to clean it.
Walhalla (n.) See Valhalla.
Waling (n.) Same as Wale, n., 4.
Walked (imp. & p. p.) of Walk
Walking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Walk
Walk (v. i.) To move along on foot; to advance by steps; to go on at a moderate pace; specifically, of two-legged creatures, to proceed at a slower or faster rate, but without running, or lifting one foot entirely before the other touches the ground.
Walk (v. i.) To move or go on the feet for exercise or amusement; to take one's exercise; to ramble.
Walk (v. i.) To be stirring; to be abroad; to go restlessly about; -- said of things or persons expected to remain quiet, as a sleeping person, or the spirit of a dead person; to go about as a somnambulist or a specter.
Walk (v. i.) To be in motion; to act; to move; to wag.
Walk (v. i.) To behave; to pursue a course of life; to conduct one's self.
Walk (v. i.) To move off; to depart.
Walk (v. t.) To pass through, over, or upon; to traverse; to perambulate; as, to walk the streets.
Walk (v. t.) To cause to walk; to lead, drive, or ride with a slow pace; as to walk one's horses.
Walk (v. t.) To subject, as cloth or yarn, to the fulling process; to full.
Walk (n.) The act of walking, or moving on the feet with a slow pace; advance without running or leaping.
Walk (n.) The act of walking for recreation or exercise; as, a morning walk; an evening walk.
Walk (n.) Manner of walking; gait; step; as, we often know a person at a distance by his walk.
Walk (n.) That in or through which one walks; place or distance walked over; a place for walking; a path or avenue prepared for foot passengers, or for taking air and exercise; way; road; hence, a place or region in which animals may graze; place of wandering; range; as, a sheep walk.
Walk (n.) A frequented track; habitual place of action; sphere; as, the walk of the historian.
Walk (n.) Conduct; course of action; behavior.
Walk (n.) The route or district regularly served by a vender; as, a milkman's walk.
Walkable (a.) Fit to be walked on; capable of being walked on or over.
Walker (n.) One who walks; a pedestrian.
Walker (n.) That with which one walks; a foot.
Walker (n.) A forest officer appointed to walk over a certain space for inspection; a forester.
Walker (v. t.) A fuller of cloth.
Walker (v. t.) Any ambulatorial orthopterous insect, as a stick insect.
Walking () a. & n. from Walk, v.
Walk-mill (n.) A fulling mill.
Walk-over (n.) In racing, the going over a course by a horse which has no competitor for the prize; hence, colloquially, a one-sided contest; an uncontested, or an easy, victory.
Walkyr (n.) See Valkyria.
Wall (n.) A kind of knot often used at the end of a rope; a wall knot; a wale.
Wall (n.) A work or structure of stone, brick, or other materials, raised to some height, and intended for defense or security, solid and permanent inclosing fence, as around a field, a park, a town, etc., also, one of the upright inclosing parts of a building or a room.
Wall (n.) A defense; a rampart; a means of protection; in the plural, fortifications, in general; works for defense.
Wall (n.) An inclosing part of a receptacle or vessel; as, the walls of a steam-engine cylinder.
Wall (n.) The side of a level or drift.
Wall (n.) The country rock bounding a vein laterally.
Walled (imp. & p. p.) of Wall
Walling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wall
Wall (v. t.) To inclose with a wall, or as with a wall.
Wall (v. t.) To defend by walls, or as if by walls; to fortify.
Wall (v. t.) To close or fill with a wall, as a doorway.
Wallaba (n.) A leguminous tree (Eperua falcata) of Demerara, with pinnate leaves and clusters of red flowers. The reddish brown wood is used for palings and shingles.
Wallabies (pl. ) of Wallaby
Wallaby (n.) Any one of numerous species of kangaroos belonging to the genus Halmaturus, native of Australia and Tasmania, especially the smaller species, as the brush kangaroo (H. Bennettii) and the pademelon (H. thetidis). The wallabies chiefly inhabit the wooded district and bushy plains.
Wallah (n.) A black variety of the jaguar; -- called also tapir tiger.
Wallaroo (n.) Any one of several species of kangaroos of the genus Macropus, especially M. robustus, sometimes called the great wallaroo.
Wallbird (n.) The spotted flycatcher.
Waller (n.) One who builds walls.
Waller (n.) The wels.
Wallerian degeneration () A form of degeneration occurring in nerve fibers as a result of their division; -- so called from Dr. Waller, who published an account of it in 1850.
Wallet (n.) A bag or sack for carrying about the person, as a bag for carrying the necessaries for a journey; a knapsack; a beggar's receptacle for charity; a peddler's pack.
Wallet (n.) A pocketbook for keeping money about the person.
Wallet (n.) Anything protuberant and swagging.
Walleteer (n.) One who carries a wallet; a foot traveler; a tramping beggar.
Wall-eye (n.) An eye in which the iris is of a very light gray or whitish color; -- said usually of horses.
Wall-eye (n.) An American fresh-water food fish (Stizostedion vitreum) having large and prominent eyes; -- called also glasseye, pike perch, yellow pike, and wall-eyed perch.
Wall-eye (n.) A California surf fish (Holconotus argenteus).
Wall-eye (n.) The alewife; -- called also wall-eyed herring.
Wall-eyed (a.) Having an eye of a very light gray or whitish color.
Wallflower (n.) A perennial, cruciferous plant (Cheiranthus Cheiri), with sweet-scented flowers varying in color from yellow to orange and deep red. In Europe it very common on old walls.
Wallflower (n.) A lady at a ball, who, either from choice, or because not asked to dance, remains a spectator.
Wallhick (n.) The lesser spotted woodpecker (Dryobates minor).
Walling (n.) The act of making a wall or walls.
Walling (n.) Walls, in general; material for walls.
Walloons (n. pl.) A Romanic people inhabiting that part of Belgium which comprises the provinces of Hainaut, Namur, Liege, and Luxembourg, and about one third of Brabant; also, the language spoken by this people. Used also adjectively.
Wallop (v. i.) To move quickly, but with great effort; to gallop.
Wallop (n.) A quick, rolling movement; a gallop.
Walloped (imp. & p. p.) of Wallop
Walloping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wallop
Wallop (v. i.) To boil with a continued bubbling or heaving and rolling, with noise.
Wallop (v. i.) To move in a rolling, cumbersome manner; to waddle.
Wallop (v. i.) To be slatternly.
Wallop (v. t.) To beat soundly; to flog; to whip.
Wallop (v. t.) To wrap up temporarily.
Wallop (v. t.) To throw or tumble over.
Wallop (n.) A thick piece of fat.
Wallop (n.) A blow.
Wallowed (imp. & p. p.) of Wallow
Wallowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wallow
Wallow (n.) To roll one's self about, as in mire; to tumble and roll about; to move lazily or heavily in any medium; to flounder; as, swine wallow in the mire.
Wallow (n.) To live in filth or gross vice; to disport one's self in a beastly and unworthy manner.
Wallow (n.) To wither; to fade.
Wallow (v. t.) To roll; esp., to roll in anything defiling or unclean.
Wallow (n.) A kind of rolling walk.
Wallower (n.) One who, or that which, wallows.
Wallower (n.) A lantern wheel; a trundle.
Wallowish (a.) Flat; insipid.
Wall-plat (n.) The spotted flycatcher. It builds its nest on walls.
Wall-sided (a.) Having sides nearly perpendicular; -- said of certain vessels to distinguish them from those having flaring sides, or sides tumbling home (see under Tumble, v. i.).
Wallwort (n.) The dwarf elder, or danewort (Sambucus Ebulus).
Walm (v. i.) To roll; to spout; to boil up.
Walnut (n.) The fruit or nut of any tree of the genus Juglans; also, the tree, and its timber. The seven or eight known species are all natives of the north temperate zone.
Walrus (n.) A very large marine mammal (Trichecus rosmarus) of the Seal family, native of the Arctic Ocean. The male has long and powerful tusks descending from the upper jaw. It uses these in procuring food and in fighting. It is hunted for its oil, ivory, and skin. It feeds largely on mollusks. Called also morse.
Walter (v. i.) To roll or wallow; to welter.
Waltron (n.) A walrus.
Walty (a.) Liable to roll over; crank; as, a walty ship.
Waltz (n.) A dance performed by two persons in circular figures with a whirling motion; also, a piece of music composed in triple measure for this kind of dance.
Waltzed (imp. & p. p.) of Waltz
Waltzing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Waltz
Waltz (v. i.) To dance a waltz.
Waltzer (n.) A person who waltzes.
Walwe (v.) To wallow.
Waly (interj.) An exclamation of grief.
Wamble (v. i.) To heave; to be disturbed by nausea; -- said of the stomach.
Wamble (v. i.) To move irregularly to and fro; to roll.
Wamble (n.) Disturbance of the stomach; a feeling of nausea.
Wamble-cropped (a.) Sick at the stomach; also, crestfallen; dejected.
Wammel (v. i.) To move irregularly or awkwardly; to wamble, or wabble.
Wamp (n.) The common American eider.
Wampee (n.) A tree (Cookia punctata) of the Orange family, growing in China and the East Indies; also, its fruit, which is about the size of a large grape, and has a hard rind and a peculiar flavor.
Wampee (n.) The pickerel weed.
Wampum (n.) Beads made of shells, used by the North American Indians as money, and also wrought into belts, etc., as an ornament.
Wan (imp.) Won.
Wan (a.) Having a pale or sickly hue; languid of look; pale; pallid.
Wan (n.) The quality of being wan; wanness.
Wan (v. i.) To grow wan; to become pale or sickly in looks.
Wand (n.) A small stick; a rod; a verge.
Wand (n.) A staff of authority.
Wand (n.) A rod used by conjurers, diviners, magicians, etc.
Wandered (imp. & p. p.) of Wander
Wandering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wander
Wander (v. i.) To ramble here and there without any certain course or with no definite object in view; to range about; to stroll; to rove; as, to wander over the fields.
Wander (v. i.) To go away; to depart; to stray off; to deviate; to go astray; as, a writer wanders from his subject.
Wander (v. i.) To be delirious; not to be under the guidance of reason; to rave; as, the mind wanders.
Wander (v. t.) To travel over without a certain course; to traverse; to stroll through.
Wanderer (n.) One who wanders; a rambler; one who roves; hence, one who deviates from duty.
Wandering () a. & n. from Wander, v.
Wanderingly (adv.) In a wandering manner.
Wanderment (n.) The act of wandering, or roaming.
Wanderoo (n.) A large monkey (Macacus silenus) native of Malabar. It is black, or nearly so, but has a long white or gray beard encircling the face. Called also maha, silenus, neelbhunder, lion-tailed baboon, and great wanderoo.
Wandy (a.) Long and flexible, like a wand.
Waned (imp. & p. p.) of Wane
Waning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wane
Wane (v. i.) To be diminished; to decrease; -- contrasted with wax, and especially applied to the illuminated part of the moon.
Wane (v. i.) To decline; to fail; to sink.
Wane (v. t.) To cause to decrease.
Wane (n.) The decrease of the illuminated part of the moon to the eye of a spectator.
Wane (n.) Decline; failure; diminution; decrease; declension.
Wane (n.) An inequality in a board.
Waney (n.) A sharp or uneven edge on a board that is cut from a log not perfectly squared, or that is made in the process of squaring. See Wany, a.
Wang (n.) The jaw, jawbone, or cheek bone.
Wang (n.) A slap; a blow.
Wang (n.) See Whang.
Wangan (n.) A boat for conveying provisions, tools, etc.; -- so called by Maine lumbermen.
Wanger (n.) A pillow for the cheek; a pillow.
Wanghee (n.) The Chinese name of one or two species of bamboo, or jointed cane, of the genus Phyllostachys. The slender stems are much used for walking sticks.
Wango (n.) A boomerang.
Wanhope (n.) Want of hope; despair; also, faint or delusive hope; delusion. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.
Wanhorn (n.) An East Indian plant (Kaempferia Galanga) of the Ginger family. See Galanga.
Waniand (n.) The wane of the moon.
Waning (n.) The act or process of waning, or decreasing.
Wanion (n.) A word of uncertain signification, used only in the phrase with a wanion, apparently equivalent to with a vengeance, with a plague, or with misfortune.
Wankle (a.) Not to be depended on; weak; unstable.
Wanly (adv.) In a wan, or pale, manner.
Wanned (a.) Made wan, or pale.
Wanness (n.) The quality or state of being wan; a sallow, dead, pale color; paleness; pallor; as, the wanness of the cheeks after a fever.
Wannish (a.) Somewhat wan; of a pale hue.
Want (v. i.) The state of not having; the condition of being without anything; absence or scarcity of what is needed or desired; deficiency; lack; as, a want of power or knowledge for any purpose; want of food and clothing.
Want (v. i.) Specifically, absence or lack of necessaries; destitution; poverty; penury; indigence; need.
Want (v. i.) That which is needed or desired; a thing of which the loss is felt; what is not possessed, and is necessary for use or pleasure.
Want (v. i.) A depression in coal strata, hollowed out before the subsequent deposition took place.
Wanted (imp. & p. p.) of Want
Wanting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Want
Want (v. t.) To be without; to be destitute of, or deficient in; not to have; to lack; as, to want knowledge; to want judgment; to want learning; to want food and clothing.
Want (v. t.) To have occasion for, as useful, proper, or requisite; to require; to need; as, in winter we want a fire; in summer we want cooling breezes.
Want (v. t.) To feel need of; to wish or long for; to desire; to crave.
Want (v. i.) To be absent; to be deficient or lacking; to fail; not to be sufficient; to fall or come short; to lack; -- often used impersonally with of; as, it wants ten minutes of four.
Want (v. i.) To be in a state of destitution; to be needy; to lack.
Wa'n't () A colloquial contraction of was not.
Wantage (n.) That which is wanting; deficiency.
Wanting (a.) Absent; lacking; missing; also, deficient; destitute; needy; as, one of the twelve is wanting; I shall not be wanting in exertion.
Wantless (a.) Having no want; abundant; fruitful.
Wanton (v. t.) Untrained; undisciplined; unrestrained; hence, loose; free; luxuriant; roving; sportive.
Wanton (v. t.) Wandering from moral rectitude; perverse; dissolute.
Wanton (v. t.) Specifically: Deviating from the rules of chastity; lewd; lustful; lascivious; libidinous; lecherous.
Wanton (v. t.) Reckless; heedless; as, wanton mischief.
Wanton (n.) A roving, frolicsome thing; a trifler; -- used rarely as a term of endearment.
Wanton (n.) One brought up without restraint; a pampered pet.
Wanton (n.) A lewd person; a lascivious man or woman.
Wantoned (imp. & p. p.) of Wanton
Wantoning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wanton
Wanton (v. i.) To rove and ramble without restraint, rule, or limit; to revel; to play loosely; to frolic.
Wanton (v. i.) To sport in lewdness; to play the wanton; to play lasciviously.
Wanton (v. t.) To cause to become wanton; also, to waste in wantonness.
Wantonize (v. i.) To behave wantonly; to frolic; to wanton.
Wantonly (adv.) In a wanton manner; without regularity or restraint; loosely; sportively; gayly; playfully; recklessly; lasciviously.
Wantonly (adv.) Unintentionally; accidentally.
Wantonness (n.) The quality or state of being wanton; negligence of restraint; sportiveness; recklessness; lasciviousness.
Wantrust (n.) Failing or diminishing trust; want of trust or confidence; distrust.
Wantwit (n.) One destitute of wit or sense; a blockhead; a fool.
Wanty (n.) A surcingle, or strap of leather, used for binding a load upon the back of a beast; also, a leather tie; a short wagon rope.
Wany (v. i.) To wane.
Wany (a.) Waning or diminished in some parts; not of uniform size throughout; -- said especially of sawed boards or timber when tapering or uneven, from being cut too near the outside of the log.
Wany (a.) Spoiled by wet; -- said of timber.
Wanze (v. i.) To wane; to wither.
Wap (v. t. & i.) To beat; to whap.
Wap (n.) A blow or beating; a whap.
Wapacut (n.) The American hawk owl. See under Hawk.
Wapatoo (n.) The edible tuber of a species of arrowhead (Sagittaria variabilis); -- so called by the Indians of Oregon.
Waped (a.) Cast down; crushed by misery; dejected.
Wapentake (n.) In some northern counties of England, a division, or district, answering to the hundred in other counties. Yorkshire, Lincolnshire, and Nottinghamshire are divided into wapentakes, instead of hundreds.
Wapinschaw (n.) An exhibition of arms. according to the rank of the individual, by all persons bearing arms; -- formerly made at certain seasons in each district.
Wapiti (n.) The American elk (Cervus Canadensis). It is closely related to the European red deer, which it somewhat exceeds in size.
Wapp (n.) A fair-leader.
Wapp (n.) A rope with wall knots in it with which the shrouds are set taut.
Wappato (n.) See Wapatoo.
Wappened (a.) A word of doubtful meaning used once by Shakespeare.
Wapper (v. t. & i.) To cause to shake; to tremble; to move tremulously, as from weakness; to totter.
Wapper (n.) A gudgeon.
Wappet (n.) A small yelping cur.
Wapping (n.) Yelping.
War (a.) Ware; aware.
War (n.) A contest between nations or states, carried on by force, whether for defence, for revenging insults and redressing wrongs, for the extension of commerce, for the acquisition of territory, for obtaining and establishing the superiority and dominion of one over the other, or for any other purpose; armed conflict of sovereign powers; declared and open hostilities.
War (n.) A condition of belligerency to be maintained by physical force. In this sense, levying war against the sovereign authority is treason.
War (n.) Instruments of war.
War (n.) Forces; army.
War (n.) The profession of arms; the art of war.
War (n.) a state of opposition or contest; an act of opposition; an inimical contest, act, or action; enmity; hostility.
Warred (imp. & p. p.) of War
Warring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of War
War (v. i.) To make war; to invade or attack a state or nation with force of arms; to carry on hostilities; to be in a state by violence.
War (v. i.) To contend; to strive violently; to fight.
War (v. t.) To make war upon; to fight.
War (v. t.) To carry on, as a contest; to wage.
War-beaten (a.) Warworn.
Warble (n.) A small, hard tumor which is produced on the back of a horse by the heat or pressure of the saddle in traveling.
Warble (n.) A small tumor produced by the larvae of the gadfly in the backs of horses, cattle, etc. Called also warblet, warbeetle, warnles.
Warble (n.) See Wormil.
Warbled (imp. & p. p.) of Warble
Warbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Warble
Warble (v. t.) To sing in a trilling, quavering, or vibratory manner; to modulate with turns or variations; to trill; as, certain birds are remarkable for warbling their songs.
Warble (v. t.) To utter musically; to modulate; to carol.
Warble (v. t.) To cause to quaver or vibrate.
Warble (v. i.) To be quavered or modulated; to be uttered melodiously.
Warble (v. i.) To sing in a trilling manner, or with many turns and variations.
Warble (v. i.) To sing with sudden changes from chest to head tones; to yodel.
Warble (n.) A quavering modulation of the voice; a musical trill; a song.
Warbler (n.) One who, or that which, warbles; a singer; a songster; -- applied chiefly to birds.
Warbler (n.) Any one of numerous species of small Old World singing birds belonging to the family Sylviidae, many of which are noted songsters. The bluethroat, blackcap, reed warbler (see under Reed), and sedge warbler (see under Sedge) are well-known species.
Warbler (n.) Any one of numerous species of small, often bright colored, American singing birds of the family or subfamily Mniotiltidae, or Sylvicolinae. They are allied to the Old World warblers, but most of them are not particularly musical.
Warblingly (adv.) In a warbling manner.
Warburg's tincture () A preparation containing quinine and many other ingredients, often used in the treatment of malarial affections. It was invented by Dr. Warburg of London.
-ward (v. i.) Alt. of -wards
-wards (v. i.) Suffixes denoting course or direction to; motion or tendency toward; as in backward, or backwards; toward, or towards, etc.
Ward (a.) The act of guarding; watch; guard; guardianship; specifically, a guarding during the day. See the Note under Watch, n., 1.
Ward (n.) One who, or that which, guards; garrison; defender; protector; means of guarding; defense; protection.
Ward (n.) The state of being under guard or guardianship; confinement under guard; the condition of a child under a guardian; custody.
Ward (n.) A guarding or defensive motion or position, as in fencing; guard.
Ward (n.) One who, or that which, is guarded.
Ward (n.) A minor or person under the care of a guardian; as, a ward in chancery.
Ward (n.) A division of a county.
Ward (n.) A division, district, or quarter of a town or city.
Ward (n.) A division of a forest.
Ward (n.) A division of a hospital; as, a fever ward.
Ward (n.) A projecting ridge of metal in the interior of a lock, to prevent the use of any key which has not a corresponding notch for passing it.
Ward (n.) A notch or slit in a key corresponding to a ridge in the lock which it fits; a ward notch.
Warded (imp. & p. p.) of Ward
Warding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Ward
Ward (n.) To keep in safety; to watch; to guard; formerly, in a specific sense, to guard during the day time.
Ward (n.) To defend; to protect.
Ward (n.) To defend by walls, fortifications, etc.
Ward (n.) To fend off; to repel; to turn aside, as anything mischievous that approaches; -- usually followed by off.
Ward (v. i.) To be vigilant; to keep guard.
Ward (v. i.) To act on the defensive with a weapon.
Ward-corn (n.) The duty of keeping watch and ward (see the Note under Watch, n., 1) with a horn to be blown upon any occasion of surprise.
Wardcorps (n.) Guardian; one set to watch over another.
Warden (n.) A keeper; a guardian; a watchman.
Warden (n.) An officer who keeps or guards; a keeper; as, the warden of a prison.
Warden (n.) A head official; as, the warden of a college; specifically (Eccl.), a churchwarden.
Warden (n.) A large, hard pear, chiefly used for baking and roasting.
Wardenry (n.) Alt. of Wardenship
Wardenship (n.) The office or jurisdiction of a warden.
Warder (n.) One who wards or keeps; a keeper; a guard.
Warder (n.) A truncheon or staff carried by a king or a commander in chief, and used in signaling his will.
Wardian (a.) Designating, or pertaining to, a kind of glass inclosure for keeping ferns, mosses, etc., or for transporting growing plants from a distance; as, a Wardian case of plants; -- so named from the inventor, Nathaniel B. Ward, an Englishman.
Wardmote (n.) Anciently, a meeting of the inhabitants of a ward; also, a court formerly held in each ward of London for trying defaults in matters relating to the watch, police, and the like.
Wardrobe (v. t.) A room or apartment where clothes are kept, or wearing apparel is stored; a portable closet for hanging up clothes.
Wardrobe (v. t.) Wearing apparel, in general; articles of dress or personal decoration.
Wardrobe (v. t.) A privy.
Wardroom (n.) A room occupied as a messroom by the commissioned officers of a war vessel. See Gunroom.
Wardroom (n.) A room used by the citizens of a city ward, for meetings, political caucuses, elections, etc.
-wards () See -ward.
Wardship (n.) The office of a ward or keeper; care and protection of a ward; guardianship; right of guardianship.
Wardship (n.) The state of begin under a guardian; pupilage.
Wardsmen (pl. ) of Wardsman
Wardsman (n.) A man who keeps ward; a guard.
Ware (imp.) Wore.
Ware (v. t.) To wear, or veer. See Wear.
Ware (n.) Seaweed.
Ware (a.) Articles of merchandise; the sum of articles of a particular kind or class; style or class of manufactures; especially, in the plural, goods; commodities; merchandise.
Ware (a.) A ware; taking notice; hence, wary; cautious; on one's guard. See Beware.
Ware (n.) The state of being ware or aware; heed.
Ware (v. t.) To make ware; to warn; to take heed of; to beware of; to guard against.
Wareful (a.) Wary; watchful; cautious.
Warefulness (n.) Wariness; cautiousness.
Warega fly () A Brazilian fly whose larvae live in the skin of man and animals, producing painful sores.
Warehouses (pl. ) of Warehouse
Warehouse (n.) A storehouse for wares, or goods.
Warehoused (imp. & p. p.) of Warehouse
Warehousing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Warehouse
Warehouse (v. t.) To deposit or secure in a warehouse.
Warehouse (v. t.) To place in the warehouse of the government or customhouse stores, to be kept until duties are paid.
Warehousemen (pl. ) of Warehouseman
Warehouseman (n.) One who keeps a warehouse; the owner or keeper of a dock warehouse or wharf store.
Warehouseman (n.) One who keeps a wholesale shop or store for Manchester or woolen goods.
Warehousing (n.) The act of placing goods in a warehouse, or in a customhouse store.
Wareless (n.) Unwary; incautious; unheeding; careless; unaware.
Warely (adv.) Cautiously; warily.
Warence (n.) Madder.
Wareroom (n.) A room in which goods are stored or exhibited for sale.
Wares (n. pl.) See 4th Ware.
Warfare (n.) Military service; military life; contest carried on by enemies; hostilities; war.
Warfare (n.) Contest; struggle.
Warfare (v. i.) To lead a military life; to carry on continual wars.
Warfarer (n.) One engaged in warfare; a military man; a soldier; a warrior.
Warhable (a.) Fit for war.
Wariangle (n.) The red-backed shrike (Lanius collurio); -- called also wurger, worrier, and throttler.
Warily (adv.) In a wary manner.
Wariment (n.) Wariness.
Warine (n.) A South American monkey, one of the sapajous.
Wariness (n.) The quality or state of being wary; care to foresee and guard against evil; cautiousness.
Warish (v. t.) To protect from the effects of; hence, to cure; to heal.
Warish (v. i.) To be cured; to recover.
Warison (v. t.) Preparation; protection; provision; supply.
Warison (v. t.) Reward; requital; guerdon.
Wark (n.) Work; a building.
Warkloom (n.) A tool; an implement.
Warlike (a.) Fit for war; disposed for war; as, a warlike state; a warlike disposition.
Warlike (a.) Belonging or relating to war; military; martial.
Warlikeness (n.) Quality of being warlike.
Warling (n.) One often quarreled with; -- / word coined, perhaps, to rhyme with darling.
Warlock (n.) A male witch; a wizard; a sprite; an imp.
Warlock (a.) Of or pertaining to a warlock or warlock; impish.
Warlockry (n.) Impishness; magic.
Warly (a.) Warlike.
Warm (superl.) Having heat in a moderate degree; not cold as, warm milk.
Warm (superl.) Having a sensation of heat, esp. of gentle heat; glowing.
Warm (superl.) Subject to heat; having prevalence of heat, or little or no cold weather; as, the warm climate of Egypt.
Warm (superl.) Fig.: Not cool, indifferent, lukewarm, or the like, in spirit or temper; zealous; ardent; fervent; excited; sprightly; irritable; excitable.
Warm (superl.) Violent; vehement; furious; excited; passionate; as, a warm contest; a warm debate.
Warm (superl.) Being well off as to property, or in good circumstances; forehanded; rich.
Warm (superl.) In children's games, being near the object sought for; hence, being close to the discovery of some person, thing, or fact concealed.
Warm (superl.) Having yellow or red for a basis, or in their composition; -- said of colors, and opposed to cold which is of blue and its compounds.
Warmed (imp. & p. p.) of Warm
Warming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Warm
Warm (a.) To communicate a moderate degree of heat to; to render warm; to supply or furnish heat to; as, a stove warms an apartment.
Warm (a.) To make engaged or earnest; to interest; to engage; to excite ardor or zeal; to enliven.
Warm (v. i.) To become warm, or moderately heated; as, the earth soon warms in a clear day summer.
Warm (v. i.) To become ardent or animated; as, the speake/ warms as he proceeds.
Warm (n.) The act of warming, or the state of being warmed; a warming; a heating.
Warm-blooded (a.) Having warm blood; -- applied especially to those animals, as birds and mammals, which have warm blood, or, more properly, the power of maintaining a nearly uniform temperature whatever the temperature of the surrounding air. See Homoiothermal.
Warmer (n.) One who, or that which, warms.
Warmful (a.) Abounding in capacity to warm; giving warmth; as, a warmful garment.
Warm-hearted (a.) Having strong affection; cordial; sincere; hearty; sympathetic.
Warming () a. & n. from Warm, v.
Warmly (adv.) In a warm manner; ardently.
Warmness (n.) Warmth.
Warmonger (n.) One who makes ar a trade or business; a mercenary.
Warmouth (n.) An American freshwater bream, or sunfish (Chaenobryttus gulosus); -- called also red-eyed bream.
Warmth (n.) The quality or state of being warm; gentle heat; as, the warmth of the sun; the warmth of the blood; vital warmth.
Warmth (n.) A state of lively and excited interest; zeal; ardor; fervor; passion; enthusiasm; earnestness; as, the warmth of love or piety; he replied with much warmth.
Warmth (n.) The glowing effect which arises from the use of warm colors; hence, any similar appearance or effect in a painting, or work of color.
Warmthless (a.) Being without warmth; not communicating warmth; cold.
Warn (v. t.) To refuse.
Warned (imp. & p. p.) of Warn
Warning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Warn
Warn (v. t.) To make ware or aware; to give previous information to; to give notice to; to notify; to admonish; hence, to notify or summon by authority; as, to warn a town meeting; to warn a tenant to quit a house.
Warn (v. t.) To give notice to, of approaching or probable danger or evil; to caution against anything that may prove injurious.
Warn (v. t.) To ward off.
Warner (n.) One who warns; an admonisher.
Warner (n.) A warrener.
Warning (a.) Giving previous notice; cautioning; admonishing; as, a warning voice.
Warning (n.) Previous notice.
Warning (n.) Caution against danger, or against faults or evil practices which incur danger; admonition; monition.
Warningly (adv.) In a warning manner.
Warnstore (v. t.) To furnish.
Warped (imp. & p. p.) of Warp
Warping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Warp
Warp (v. t.) To throw; hence, to send forth, or throw out, as words; to utter.
Warp (v. t.) To turn or twist out of shape; esp., to twist or bend out of a flat plane by contraction or otherwise.
Warp (v. t.) To turn aside from the true direction; to cause to bend or incline; to pervert.
Warp (v. t.) To weave; to fabricate.
Warp (v. t.) To tow or move, as a vessel, with a line, or warp, attached to a buoy, anchor, or other fixed object.
Warp (v. t.) To cast prematurely, as young; -- said of cattle, sheep, etc.
Warp (v. t.) To let the tide or other water in upon (lowlying land), for the purpose of fertilization, by a deposit of warp, or slimy substance.
Warp (v. t.) To run off the reel into hauls to be tarred, as yarns.
Warp (v. t.) To arrange (yarns) on a warp beam.
Warp (v. i.) To turn, twist, or be twisted out of shape; esp., to be twisted or bent out of a flat plane; as, a board warps in seasoning or shrinking.
Warp (v. i.) to turn or incline from a straight, true, or proper course; to deviate; to swerve.
Warp (v. i.) To fly with a bending or waving motion; to turn and wave, like a flock of birds or insects.
Warp (v. i.) To cast the young prematurely; to slink; -- said of cattle, sheep, etc.
Warp (v. i.) To wind yarn off bobbins for forming the warp of a web; to wind a warp on a warp beam.
Warp (v.) The threads which are extended lengthwise in the loom, and crossed by the woof.
Warp (v.) A rope used in hauling or moving a vessel, usually with one end attached to an anchor, a post, or other fixed object; a towing line; a warping hawser.
Warp (v.) A slimy substance deposited on land by tides, etc., by which a rich alluvial soil is formed.
Warp (v.) A premature casting of young; -- said of cattle, sheep, etc.
Warp (v.) Four; esp., four herrings; a cast. See Cast, n., 17.
Warp (v.) The state of being warped or twisted; as, the warp of a board.
Warpage (n.) The act of warping; also, a charge per ton made on shipping in some harbors.
Warpath (n.) The route taken by a party of Indians going on a warlike expedition.
Warper (n.) One who, or that which, warps or twists out of shape.
Warper (n.) One who, or that which, forms yarn or thread into warps or webs for the loom.
Warping (n.) The act or process of one who, or that which, warps.
Warping (n.) The art or occupation of preparing warp or webs for the weaver.
Warproof (n.) Valor tried by war.
Warragal (n.) The dingo.
Warrandice (n.) The obligation by which a person, conveying a subject or a right, is bound to uphold that subject or right against every claim, challenge, or burden arising from circumstances prior to the conveyance; warranty.
Warrant (n.) That which warrants or authorizes; a commission giving authority, or justifying the doing of anything; an act, instrument, or obligation, by which one person authorizes another to do something which he has not otherwise a right to do; an act or instrument investing one with a right or authority, and thus securing him from loss or damage; commission; authority.
Warrant (n.) A writing which authorizes a person to receive money or other thing.
Warrant (n.) A precept issued by a magistrate authorizing an officer to make an arrest, a seizure, or a search, or do other acts incident to the administration of justice.
Warrant (n.) An official certificate of appointment issued to an officer of lower rank than a commissioned officer. See Warrant officer, below.
Warrant (n.) That which vouches or insures for anything; guaranty; security.
Warrant (n.) That which attests or proves; a voucher.
Warrant (n.) Right; legality; allowance.
Warranted (imp. & p. p.) of Warrant
Warranting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Warrant
Warrant (n.) To make secure; to give assurance against harm; to guarantee safety to; to give authority or power to do, or forbear to do, anything by which the person authorized is secured, or saved harmless, from any loss or damage by his action.
Warrant (n.) To support by authority or proof; to justify; to maintain; to sanction; as, reason warrants it.
Warrant (n.) To give a warrant or warranty to; to assure as if by giving a warrant to.
Warrant (n.) To secure to, as a grantee, an estate granted; to assure.
Warrant (n.) To secure to, as a purchaser of goods, the title to the same; to indemnify against loss.
Warrant (n.) To secure to, as a purchaser, the quality or quantity of the goods sold, as represented. See Warranty, n., 2.
Warrant (n.) To assure, as a thing sold, to the purchaser; that is, to engage that the thing is what it appears, or is represented, to be, which implies a covenant to make good any defect or loss incurred by it.
Warrantable (a.) Authorized by commission, precept, or right; justifiable; defensible; as, the seizure of a thief is always warrantable by law and justice; falsehood is never warrantable.
Warrantee (n.) The person to whom a warrant or warranty is made.
Warranter (n.) One who warrants, gives authority, or legally empowers.
Warranter (n.) One who assures, or covenants to assure; one who contracts to secure another in a right, or to make good any defect of title or quality; one who gives a warranty; a guarantor; as, the warranter of a horse.
Warrantise (n.) Authority; security; warranty.
Warrantise (v. t.) To warrant.
Warrantor (n.) One who warrants.
Warranties (pl. ) of Warranty
Warranty (n.) A covenant real, whereby the grantor of an estate of freehold and his heirs were bound to warrant and defend the title, and, in case of eviction by title paramount, to yield other lands of equal value in recompense. This warranty has long singe become obsolete, and its place supplied by personal covenants for title. Among these is the covenant of warranty, which runs with the land, and is in the nature of a real covenant.
Warranty (n.) An engagement or undertaking, express or implied, that a certain fact regarding the subject of a contract is, or shall be, as it is expressly or impliedly declared or promised to be. In sales of goods by persons in possession, there is an implied warranty of title, but, as to the quality of goods, the rule of every sale is, Caveat emptor.
Warranty (n.) A stipulation or engagement by a party insured, that certain things, relating to the subject of insurance, or affecting the risk, exist, or shall exist, or have been done, or shall be done. These warranties, when express, should appear in the policy; but there are certain implied warranties.
Warranty (n.) Justificatory mandate or precept; authority; warrant.
Warranty (n.) Security; warrant; guaranty.
Warranty (v. t.) To warrant; to guarantee.
Warray (v. t.) To make war upon. [Obs.] Fairfax.
Warre (a.) Worse.
Warren (n.) A place privileged, by prescription or grant the king, for keeping certain animals (as hares, conies, partridges, pheasants, etc.) called beasts and fowls of warren.
Warren (n.) A privilege which one has in his lands, by royal grant or prescription, of hunting and taking wild beasts and birds of warren, to the exclusion of any other person not entering by his permission.
Warren (n.) A piece of ground for the breeding of rabbits.
Warren (n.) A place for keeping flash, in a river.
Warrener (n.) The keeper of a warren.
Warriangle (n.) See Wariangle.
Warrie (v. t.) See Warye.
Warrin (n.) An Australian lorikeet (Trichoglossus multicolor) remarkable for the variety and brilliancy of its colors; -- called also blue-bellied lorikeet, and blue-bellied parrot.
Warrior (n.) A man engaged or experienced in war, or in the military life; a soldier; a champion.
Warrioress (n.) A female warrior.
Warry (v. t.) See Warye.
Warsaw (n.) The black grouper (Epinephelus nigritus) of the southern coasts of the United States.
Warsaw (n.) The jewfish; -- called also guasa.
Wart (n.) A small, usually hard, tumor on the skin formed by enlargement of its vascular papillae, and thickening of the epidermis which covers them.
Wart (n.) An excrescence or protuberance more or less resembling a true wart; specifically (Bot.), a glandular excrescence or hardened protuberance on plants.
Warted (a.) Having little knobs on the surface; verrucose; as, a warted capsule.
Wart hog () Either one of two species of large, savage African wild hogs of the genus Phacoch/rus. These animals have a pair of large, rough, fleshy tubercles behind the tusks and second pair behind the eyes. The tusks are large and strong, and both pairs curve upward. The body is scantily covered with bristles, but there is long dorsal mane. The South African species (Phacoch/rus Aethiopicus) is the best known. Called also vlacke vark. The second species (P. Aeliani) is native of the coasts of the Red Sea.
Wartless (a.) Having no wart.
Wartweed (n.) Same as Wartwort.
Wartwort (n.) A name given to several plants because they were thought to be a cure for warts, as a kind of spurge (Euphorbia Helioscopia), and the nipplewort (Lampsana communis).
Warty (a.) Having warts; full of warts; overgrow with warts; as, a warty leaf.
Warty (a.) Of the nature of warts; as, a warty excrescence.
Warwickite (n.) A dark brown or black mineral, occurring in prismatic crystals imbedded in limestone near Warwick, New York. It consists of the borate and titanate of magnesia and iron.
Warworn (a.) Worn with military service; as, a warworn soldier; a warworn coat.
Wary (a.) Cautious of danger; carefully watching and guarding against deception, artifices, and dangers; timorously or suspiciously prudent; circumspect; scrupulous; careful.
Wary (a.) Characterized by caution; guarded; careful.
Warye (v. t.) To curse; to curse; to execrate; to condemn; also, to vex.
Was (v.) The first and third persons singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, preterit (imperfect) tense; as, I was; he was.
Wase (n.) A bundle of straw, or other material, to relieve the pressure of burdens carried upon the head.
Washed (imp. & p. p.) of Wash
Washing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wash
Wash (v. t.) To cleanse by ablution, or dipping or rubbing in water; to apply water or other liquid to for the purpose of cleansing; to scrub with water, etc., or as with water; as, to wash the hands or body; to wash garments; to wash sheep or wool; to wash the pavement or floor; to wash the bark of trees.
Wash (v. t.) To cover with water or any liquid; to wet; to fall on and moisten; hence, to overflow or dash against; as, waves wash the shore.
Wash (v. t.) To waste or abrade by the force of water in motion; as, heavy rains wash a road or an embankment.
Wash (v. t.) To remove by washing to take away by, or as by, the action of water; to drag or draw off as by the tide; -- often with away, off, out, etc.; as, to wash dirt from the hands.
Wash (v. t.) To cover with a thin or watery coat of color; to tint lightly and thinly.
Wash (v. t.) To overlay with a thin coat of metal; as, steel washed with silver.
Wash (v. i.) To perform the act of ablution.
Wash (v. i.) To clean anything by rubbing or dipping it in water; to perform the business of cleansing clothes, ore, etc., in water.
Wash (v. i.) To bear without injury the operation of being washed; as, some calicoes do not wash.
Wash (v. i.) To be wasted or worn away by the action of water, as by a running or overflowing stream, or by the dashing of the sea; -- said of road, a beach, etc.
Wash (n.) The act of washing; an ablution; a cleansing, wetting, or dashing with water; hence, a quantity, as of clothes, washed at once.
Wash (n.) A piece of ground washed by the action of a sea or river, or sometimes covered and sometimes left dry; the shallowest part of a river, or arm of the sea; also, a bog; a marsh; a fen; as, the washes in Lincolnshire.
Wash (n.) Substances collected and deposited by the action of water; as, the wash of a sewer, of a river, etc.
Wash (n.) Waste liquid, the refuse of food, the collection from washed dishes, etc., from a kitchen, often used as food for pigs.
Wash (n.) The fermented wort before the spirit is extracted.
Wash (n.) A mixture of dunder, molasses, water, and scummings, used in the West Indies for distillation.
Wash (n.) That with which anything is washed, or wetted, smeared, tinted, etc., upon the surface.
Wash (n.) A liquid cosmetic for the complexion.
Wash (n.) A liquid dentifrice.
Wash (n.) A liquid preparation for the hair; as, a hair wash.
Wash (n.) A medical preparation in a liquid form for external application; a lotion.
Wash (n.) A thin coat of color, esp. water color.
Wash (n.) A thin coat of metal laid on anything for beauty or preservation.
Wash (n.) The blade of an oar, or the thin part which enters the water.
Wash (n.) The backward current or disturbed water caused by the action of oars, or of a steamer's screw or paddles, etc.
Wash (n.) The flow, swash, or breaking of a body of water, as a wave; also, the sound of it.
Wash (n.) Ten strikes, or bushels, of oysters.
Wash (a.) Washy; weak.
Wash (a.) Capable of being washed without injury; washable; as, wash goods.
Washable (a.) Capable of being washed without damage to fabric or color.
Washboard (n.) A fluted, or ribbed, board on which clothes are rubbed in washing them.
Washboard (n.) A board running round, and serving as a facing for, the walls of a room, next to the floor; a mopboard.
Washboard (n.) A broad, thin plank, fixed along the gunwale of boat to keep the sea from breaking inboard; also, a plank on the sill of a lower deck port, for the same purpose; -- called also wasteboard.
Washbowl (n.) A basin, or bowl, to hold water for washing one's hands, face, etc.
Washdish (n.) A washbowl.
Washdish (n.) Same as Washerwoman, 2.
Washed (a.) Appearing as if overlaid with a thin layer of different color; -- said of the colors of certain birds and insects.
Washen () p. p. of Wash.
Washer (n.) One who, or that which, washes.
Washer (n.) A ring of metal, leather, or other material, or a perforated plate, used for various purposes, as around a bolt or screw to form a seat for the head or nut, or around a wagon axle to prevent endwise motion of the hub of the wheel and relieve friction, or in a joint to form a packing, etc.
Washer (n.) A fitting, usually having a plug, applied to a cistern, tub, sink, or the like, and forming the outlet opening.
Washer (n.) The common raccoon.
Washer (n.) Same as Washerwoman, 2.
Washermen (pl. ) of Washerman
Washerman (n.) A man who washes clothes, esp. for hire, or for others.
Washerwomen (pl. ) of Washerwoman
Washerwoman (n.) A woman who washes clothes, especially for hire, or for others.
Washerwoman (n.) The pied wagtail; -- so called in allusion to its beating the water with its tail while tripping along the leaves of water plants.
Washhouse (n.) An outbuilding for washing, esp. one for washing clothes; a laundry.
Washiness (n.) The quality or state of being washy, watery, or weak.
Washing (n.) The act of one who washes; the act of cleansing with water; ablution.
Washing (n.) The clothes washed, esp. at one time; a wash.
Washingtonian (a.) Pertaining to, or characteristic of, George Washington; as, a Washingtonian policy.
Washingtonian (a.) Designating, or pertaining to, a temperance society and movement started in Baltimore in 1840 on the principle of total abstinence.
Washingtonian (n.) A member of the Washingtonian Society.
Wash-off (a.) Capable of being washed off; not permanent or durable; -- said of colors not fixed by steaming or otherwise.
Washout (n.) The washing out or away of earth, etc., especially of a portion of the bed of a road or railroad by a fall of rain or a freshet; also, a place, especially in the bed of a road or railroad, where the earth has been washed away.
Washpot (n.) A pot or vessel in which anything is washed.
Washpot (n.) A pot containing melted tin into which the plates are dipped to be coated.
Washstand (n.) A piece of furniture holding the ewer or pitcher, basin, and other requisites for washing the person.
Washtub (n.) A tub in which clothes are washed.
Washy (a.) Watery; damp; soft.
Washy (a.) Lacking substance or strength; weak; thin; dilute; feeble; as, washy tea; washy resolutions.
Washy (a.) Not firm or hardy; liable to sweat profusely with labor; as, a washy horse.
Wasite (n.) A variety of allanite from Sweden supposed to contain wasium.
Wasium (n.) A rare element supposed by Bahr to have been extracted from wasite, but now identified with thorium.
Wasp (n.) Any one of numerous species of stinging hymenopterous insects, esp. any of the numerous species of the genus Vespa, which includes the true, or social, wasps, some of which are called yellow jackets.
Waspish (a.) Resembling a wasp in form; having a slender waist, like a wasp.
Waspish (a.) Quick to resent a trifling affront; characterized by snappishness; irritable; irascible; petulant; snappish.
Wassail (n.) An ancient expression of good wishes on a festive occasion, especially in drinking to some one.
Wassail (n.) An occasion on which such good wishes are expressed in drinking; a drinking bout; a carouse.
Wassail (n.) The liquor used for a wassail; esp., a beverage formerly much used in England at Christmas and other festivals, made of ale (or wine) flavored with spices, sugar, toast, roasted apples, etc.; -- called also lamb's wool.
Wassail (n.) A festive or drinking song or glee.
Wassail (a.) Of or pertaining to wassail, or to a wassail; convivial; as, a wassail bowl.
Wassail (v. i.) To hold a wassail; to carouse.
Wassailer (n.) One who drinks wassail; one who engages in festivity, especially in drinking; a reveler.
Wast () The second person singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, imperfect tense; -- now used only in solemn or poetical style. See Was.
Wastage (n.) Loss by use, decay, evaporation, leakage, or the like; waste.
Waste (a.) Desolate; devastated; stripped; bare; hence, dreary; dismal; gloomy; cheerless.
Waste (a.) Lying unused; unproductive; worthless; valueless; refuse; rejected; as, waste land; waste paper.
Waste (a.) Lost for want of occupiers or use; superfluous.
Wasted (imp. & p. p.) of Waste
Wasting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Waste
Waste (a.) To bring to ruin; to devastate; to desolate; to destroy.
Waste (a.) To wear away by degrees; to impair gradually; to diminish by constant loss; to use up; to consume; to spend; to wear out.
Waste (a.) To spend unnecessarily or carelessly; to employ prodigally; to expend without valuable result; to apply to useless purposes; to lavish vainly; to squander; to cause to be lost; to destroy by scattering or injury.
Waste (a.) To damage, impair, or injure, as an estate, voluntarily, or by suffering the buildings, fences, etc., to go to decay.
Waste (v. i.) To be diminished; to lose bulk, substance, strength, value, or the like, gradually; to be consumed; to dwindle; to grow less.
Waste (v. i.) To procure or sustain a reduction of flesh; -- said of a jockey in preparation for a race, etc.
Waste (v.) The act of wasting, or the state of being wasted; a squandering; needless destruction; useless consumption or expenditure; devastation; loss without equivalent gain; gradual loss or decrease, by use, wear, or decay; as, a waste of property, time, labor, words, etc.
Waste (v.) That which is wasted or desolate; a devastated, uncultivated, or wild country; a deserted region; an unoccupied or unemployed space; a dreary void; a desert; a wilderness.
Waste (v.) That which is of no value; worthless remnants; refuse. Specifically: Remnants of cops, or other refuse resulting from the working of cotton, wool, hemp, and the like, used for wiping machinery, absorbing oil in the axle boxes of railway cars, etc.
Waste (v.) Spoil, destruction, or injury, done to houses, woods, fences, lands, etc., by a tenant for life or for years, to the prejudice of the heir, or of him in reversion or remainder.
Waste (v.) Old or abandoned workings, whether left as vacant space or filled with refuse.
Wastebasket (n.) A basket used in offices, libraries, etc., as a receptacle for waste paper.
Wasteboard (n.) See Washboard, 3.
Wastebook (n.) A book in which rough entries of transactions are made, previous to their being carried into the journal.
Wasteful (a.) Full of waste; destructive to property; ruinous; as, wasteful practices or negligence; wasteful expenses.
Wasteful (a.) Expending, or tending to expend, property, or that which is valuable, in a needless or useless manner; lavish; prodigal; as, a wasteful person; a wasteful disposition.
Wasteful (a.) Waste; desolate; unoccupied; untilled.
Wastel (n.) A kind of white and fine bread or cake; -- called also wastel bread, and wastel cake.
Wasteness (n.) The quality or state of being waste; a desolate state or condition; desolation.
Wasteness (n.) That which is waste; a desert; a waste.
Waster (v. t.) One who, or that which, wastes; one who squanders; one who consumes or expends extravagantly; a spendthrift; a prodigal.
Waster (v. t.) An imperfection in the wick of a candle, causing it to waste; -- called also a thief.
Waster (v. t.) A kind of cudgel; also, a blunt-edged sword used as a foil.
Wastethrift (n.) A spendthrift.
Wasteweir (n.) An overfall, or weir, for the escape, or overflow, of superfluous water from a canal, reservoir, pond, or the like.
Wasting (a.) Causing waste; also, undergoing waste; diminishing; as, a wasting disease; a wasting fortune.
Wastor (n.) A waster; a thief.
Wastorel (n.) See Wastrel.
Wastrel (n.) Any waste thing or substance
Wastrel (n.) Waste land or common land.
Wastrel (n.) A profligate.
Wastrel (n.) A neglected child; a street Arab.
Wastrel (n.) Anything cast away as bad or useless, as imperfect bricks, china, etc.
Watch (v. i.) The act of watching; forbearance of sleep; vigil; wakeful, vigilant, or constantly observant attention; close observation; guard; preservative or preventive vigilance; formerly, a watching or guarding by night.
Watch (v. i.) One who watches, or those who watch; a watchman, or a body of watchmen; a sentry; a guard.
Watch (v. i.) The post or office of a watchman; also, the place where a watchman is posted, or where a guard is kept.
Watch (v. i.) The period of the night during which a person does duty as a sentinel, or guard; the time from the placing of a sentinel till his relief; hence, a division of the night.
Watch (v. i.) A small timepiece, or chronometer, to be carried about the person, the machinery of which is moved by a spring.
Watch (n.) An allotted portion of time, usually four hour for standing watch, or being on deck ready for duty. Cf. Dogwatch.
Watch (n.) That part, usually one half, of the officers and crew, who together attend to the working of a vessel for an allotted time, usually four hours. The watches are designated as the port watch, and the starboard watch.
Watch (v. i.) To be awake; to be or continue without sleep; to wake; to keep vigil.
Watch (v. i.) To be attentive or vigilant; to give heed; to be on the lookout; to keep guard; to act as sentinel.
Watch (v. i.) To be expectant; to look with expectation; to wait; to seek opportunity.
Watch (v. i.) To remain awake with any one as nurse or attendant; to attend on the sick during the night; as, to watch with a man in a fever.
Watch (v. i.) To serve the purpose of a watchman by floating properly in its place; -- said of a buoy.
Watched (imp. & p. p.) of Watch
Watching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Watch
Watch (v. t.) To give heed to; to observe the actions or motions of, for any purpose; to keep in view; not to lose from sight and observation; as, to watch the progress of a bill in the legislature.
Watch (v. t.) To tend; to guard; to have in keeping.
Watchdog (n.) A dog kept to watch and guard premises or property, and to give notice of the approach of intruders.
Watcher (n.) One who watches; one who sits up or continues; a diligent observer; specifically, one who attends upon the sick during the night.
Watches (n. pl.) The leaves of Saracenia flava. See Trumpets.
Watchet (a.) Pale or light blue.
Watchful (a.) Full of watch; vigilant; attentive; careful to observe closely; observant; cautious; -- with of before the thing to be regulated or guarded; as, to be watchful of one's behavior; and with against before the thing to be avoided; as, to be watchful against the growth of vicious habits.
Watchhouses (pl. ) of Watchhouse
Watchhouse (n.) A house in which a watch or guard is placed.
Watchhouse (n.) A place where persons under temporary arrest by the police of a city are kept; a police station; a lockup.
Watchmaker (n.) One whose occupation is to make and repair watches.
Watchmen (pl. ) of Watchman
Watchman (n.) One set to watch; a person who keeps guard; a guard; a sentinel.
Watchman (n.) Specifically, one who guards a building, or the streets of a city, by night.
Watchtower (n.) A tower in which a sentinel is placed to watch for enemies, the approach of danger, or the like.
Watchword (n.) A word given to sentinels, and to such as have occasion to visit the guards, used as a signal by which a friend is known from an enemy, or a person who has a right to pass the watch from one who has not; a countersign; a password.
Watchword (n.) A sentiment or motto; esp., one used as a rallying cry or a signal for action.
Water (n.) The fluid which descends from the clouds in rain, and which forms rivers, lakes, seas, etc.
Water (n.) A body of water, standing or flowing; a lake, river, or other collection of water.
Water (n.) Any liquid secretion, humor, or the like, resembling water; esp., the urine.
Water (n.) A solution in water of a gaseous or readily volatile substance; as, ammonia water.
Water (n.) The limpidity and luster of a precious stone, especially a diamond; as, a diamond of the first water, that is, perfectly pure and transparent. Hence, of the first water, that is, of the first excellence.
Water (n.) A wavy, lustrous pattern or decoration such as is imparted to linen, silk, metals, etc. See Water, v. t., 3, Damask, v. t., and Damaskeen.
Water (v. t.) An addition to the shares representing the capital of a stock company so that the aggregate par value of the shares is increased while their value for investment is diminished, or "diluted."
Watered (imp. & p. p.) of Water
Watering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Water
Water (v. t.) To wet or supply with water; to moisten; to overflow with water; to irrigate; as, to water land; to water flowers.
Water (v. t.) To supply with water for drink; to cause or allow to drink; as, to water cattle and horses.
Water (v. t.) To wet and calender, as cloth, so as to impart to it a lustrous appearance in wavy lines; to diversify with wavelike lines; as, to water silk. Cf. Water, n., 6.
Water (n.) To add water to (anything), thereby extending the quantity or bulk while reducing the strength or quality; to extend; to dilute; to weaken.
Water (v. i.) To shed, secrete, or fill with, water or liquid matter; as, his eyes began to water.
Water (v. i.) To get or take in water; as, the ship put into port to water.
Water adder () The water moccasin.
Water adder () The common, harmless American water snake (Tropidonotus sipedon). See Illust. under Water Snake.
Waterage (n.) Money paid for transportation of goods, etc., by water.
Water agrimony () A kind of bur marigold (Bidens tripartita) found in wet places in Europe.
Water aloe () See Water soldier.
Water antelope () See Water buck.
Water arum () An aroid herb (Calla palustris) having a white spathe. It is an inhabitant of the north temperate zone.
Water back () See under 1st Back.
Water bailiff () An officer of the customs, whose duty it is to search vessels.
Water ballast () Water confined in specially constructed compartments in a vessel's hold, to serve as ballast.
Water barometer () A barometer in which the changes of atmospheric pressure are indicated by the motion of a column of water instead of mercury. It requires a column of water about thirty-three feet in height.
Water bath () A device for regulating the temperature of anything subjected to heat, by surrounding the vessel containing it with another vessel containing water which can be kept at a desired temperature; also, a vessel designed for this purpose.
Water battery () A voltaic battery in which the exciting fluid is water.
Water battery () A battery nearly on a level with the water.
Water bear () Any species of Tardigrada, 2. See Illust. of Tardigrada.
Water-bearer (n.) The constellation Aquarius.
Water bed () A kind of mattress made of, or covered with, waterproof fabric and filled with water. It is used in hospitals for bedridden patients.
Water beech () The American hornbeam. See Hornbeam.
Water beetle () Any one of numerous species of aquatic beetles belonging to Dytiscus and allied genera of the family Dytiscidae, and to various genera of the family Hydrophilidae. These beetles swim with great agility, the fringed hind legs acting together like oars.
Water bellows () Same as Tromp.
Water bird () Any aquatic bird; a water fowl.
Water blackbird () The European water ousel, or dipper.
Waterboard (n.) A board set up to windward in a boat, to keep out water.
Water boatman () A boat bug.
Waterbok (n.) A water buck.
Water-bound (a.) Prevented by a flood from proceeding.
Water brain () A disease of sheep; gid.
Water brash () See under Brash.
Water breather () Any arthropod that breathes by means of gills.
Water bridge () See Water table.
Water buck () A large, heavy antelope (Kobus ellipsiprymnus) native of Central Africa. It frequents the banks of rivers and is a good swimmer. It has a white ring around the rump. Called also photomok, water antelope, and waterbok.
Water buffalo () The European buffalo.
Water bug () The Croton bug.
Water bug () Any one of numerous species of large, rapacious, aquatic, hemipterous insects belonging to Belostoma, Benacus, Zaitha, and other genera of the family Belostomatidae. Their hind legs are long and fringed, and act like oars. Some of these insects are of great size, being among the largest existing Hemiptera. Many of them come out of the water and fly about at night.
Water butt () A large, open-headed cask, set up on end, to contain water.
Water caltrop () The water chestnut.
Water can () Any one of several species of Nuphar; the yellow frog lily; -- so called from the shape of the seed vessel. See Nuphar, and cf. Candock.
Water canker () See Canker, n., 1.
Water carriage () Transportation or conveyance by water; means of transporting by water.
Water carriage () A vessel or boat.
Water cart () A cart carrying water; esp., one carrying water for sale, or for sprinkling streets, gardens, etc.
Water cavy () The capybara.
Water celery () A very acrid herb (Ranunculus sceleratus) growing in ditches and wet places; -- called also cursed crowfoot.
Water cell () A cell containing water; specifically (Zool.), one of the cells or chambers in which water is stored up in the stomach of a camel.
Water cement () Hydraulic cement.
Water chestnut () The fruit of Trapa natans and Trapa bicornis, Old World water plants bearing edible nutlike fruits armed with several hard and sharp points; also, the plant itself; -- called also water caltrop.
Water chevrotain () A large West African chevrotain (Hyaemoschus aquaticus). It has a larger body and shorter legs than the other allied species. Called also water deerlet.
Water chicken () The common American gallinule.
Water chickweed () A small annual plant (Montia fontana) growing in wet places in southern regions.
Water chinquapin () The American lotus, and its edible seeds, which somewhat resemble chinquapins. Cf. Yoncopin.
Water clock () An instrument or machine serving to measure time by the fall, or flow, of a certain quantity of water; a clepsydra.
Water-closet (n.) A privy; especially, a privy furnished with a contrivance for introducing a stream of water to cleanse it.
Water cock () A large gallinule (Gallicrex cristatus) native of Australia, India, and the East Indies. In the breeding season the male is black and has a fleshy red caruncle, or horn, on the top of its head. Called also kora.
Water color () A color ground with water and gum or other glutinous medium; a color the vehicle of which is water; -- so called in distinction from oil color.
Water color () A picture painted with such colors.
Water-colorist (n.) One who paints in water colors.
Water course () A stream of water; a river or brook.
Water course () A natural channel for water; also, a canal for the conveyance of water, especially in draining lands.
Water course () A running stream of water having a bed and banks; the easement one may have in the flowing of such a stream in its accustomed course. A water course may be sometimes dry.
Water craft () Any vessel or boat plying on water; vessels and boats, collectively.
Water crake () The dipper.
Water crake () The spotted crake (Porzana maruetta). See Illust. of Crake.
Water crake () The swamp hen, or crake, of Australia.
Water crane () A goose-neck apparatus for supplying water from an elevated tank, as to the tender of a locomotive.
Water cress () A perennial cruciferous herb (Nasturtium officinale) growing usually in clear running or spring water. The leaves are pungent, and used for salad and as an antiscorbutic.
Water crow () The dipper.
Water crow () The European coot.
Water crowfoot () An aquatic kind of buttercup (Ranunculus aquatilis), used as food for cattle in parts of England.
Water cure () Hydropathy.
Water cure () A hydropathic institution.
Water deck () A covering of painting canvas for the equipments of a dragoon's horse.
Water deer () A small Chinese deer (Hydropotes inermis). Both sexes are destitute of antlers, but the male has large, descending canine tusks.
Water deer () The water chevrotain.
Water deerlet () See Water chevrotain.
Water devil () The rapacious larva of a large water beetle (Hydrophilus piceus), and of other similar species. See Illust. of Water beetle.
Water dock () A tall, coarse dock growing in wet places. The American water dock is Rumex orbiculatus, the European is R. Hydrolapathum.
Water doctor () One who professes to be able to divine diseases by inspection of the urine.
Water doctor () A physician who treats diseases with water; an hydropathist.
Water dog () A dog accustomed to the water, or trained to retrieve waterfowl. Retrievers, waters spaniels, and Newfoundland dogs are so trained.
Water dog () The menobranchus.
Water dog () A small floating cloud, supposed to indicate rain.
Water dog () A sailor, esp. an old sailor; an old salt.
Water drain () A drain or channel for draining off water.
Water drainage () The draining off of water.
Water dressing () The treatment of wounds or ulcers by the application of water; also, a dressing saturated with water only, for application to a wound or an ulcer.
Water dropwort () A European poisonous umbelliferous plant (Enanthe fistulosa) with large hollow stems and finely divided leaves.
Water eagle () The osprey.
Water elder () The guelder-rose.
Water elephant () The hippopotamus.
Water engine () An engine to raise water; or an engine moved by water; also, an engine or machine for extinguishing fires; a fire engine.
Waterer (n.) One who, or that which, waters.
Waterfall (n.) A fall, or perpendicular descent, of the water of a river or stream, or a descent nearly perpendicular; a cascade; a cataract.
Waterfall (n.) An arrangement of a woman's back hair over a cushion or frame in some resemblance to a waterfall.
Waterfall (n.) A certain kind of neck scarf.
Water feather () Alt. of Water feather-foil
Water feather-foil () The water violet (Hottonia palustris); also, the less showy American plant H. inflata.
Water flag () A European species of Iris (Iris Pseudacorus) having bright yellow flowers.
Water flannel () A floating mass formed in pools by the entangled filaments of a European fresh-water alga (Cladophora crispata).
Water flea () Any one of numerous species of small aquatic Entomostraca belonging to the genera Cyclops, Daphnia, etc; -- so called because they swim with sudden leaps, or starts.
Waterflood (n.) A flood of water; an inundation.
Water flounder () The windowpane (Pleuronectes maculatus).
Waterfowl (n.) Any bird that frequents the water, or lives about rivers, lakes, etc., or on or near the sea; an aquatic fowl; -- used also collectively.
Water fox () The carp; -- so called on account of its cunning.
Water frame () A name given to the first power spinning machine, because driven by water power.
Water furrow () A deep furrow for conducting water from the ground, and keeping the surface soil dry.
Water-furrow (v. t.) To make water furrows in.
Water gage () See Water gauge.
Water gall () A cavity made in the earth by a torrent of water; a washout.
Water gall () A watery appearance in the sky, accompanying the rainbow; a secondary or broken rainbow.
Water gang () A passage for water, such as was usually made in a sea wall, to drain water out of marshes.
Water gas () See under Gas.
Water gate () A gate, or valve, by which a flow of water is permitted, prevented, or regulated.
Water gauge () A wall or bank to hold water back.
Water gauge () An instrument for measuring or ascertaining the depth or quantity of water, or for indicating the height of its surface, as in the boiler of a steam engine. See Gauge.
Water gavel () A gavel or rent paid for a privilege, as of fishing, in some river or water.
Water germander () A labiate plant (Teucrium Scordium) found in marshy places in Europe.
Water gilding () The act, or the process, of gilding metallic surfaces by covering them with a thin coating of amalgam of gold, and then volatilizing the mercury by heat; -- called also wash gilding.
Water glass () See Soluble glass, under Glass.
Water god () A fabulous deity supposed to dwell in, and preside over, some body of water.
Water gruel () A liquid food composed of water and a small portion of meal, or other farinaceous substance, boiled and seasoned.
Water hammer () A vessel partly filled with water, exhausted of air, and hermetically sealed. When reversed or shaken, the water being unimpeded by air, strikes the sides in solid mass with a sound like that of a hammer.
Water hammer () A concussion, or blow, made by water in striking, as against the sides of a pipe or vessel containing it.
Water hare () A small American hare or rabbit (Lepus aquaticus) found on or near the southern coasts of the United States; -- called also water rabbit, and swamp hare.
Water hemlock () A poisonous umbelliferous plant (Cicuta virosa) of Europe; also, any one of several plants of that genus.
Water hemlock () A poisonous plant (/nanthe crocata) resembling the above.
Water hemp () See under Hemp.
Water hen () Any gallinule.
Water hen () The common American coot.
Water hog () The capybara.
Water horehound () Bugleweed.
Waterhorse (n.) A pile of salted fish heaped up to drain.
Water hyacinth () Either of several tropical aquatic plants of the genus Eichhornia, related to the pickerel weed.
Water ice () Water flavored, sweetened, and frozen, to be eaten as a confection.
Waterie (n.) The pied wagtail; -- so called because it frequents ponds.
Water inch () Same as Inch of water, under Water.
Wateriness (n.) The quality or state of being watery; moisture; humidity.
Watering () a. & n. from Water, v.
Waterish (a.) Resembling water; thin; watery.
Waterish (a.) Somewhat watery; moist; as, waterish land.
Waterishness (n.) The quality of being waterish.
Water joint () A joint in a stone pavement where the stones are left slightly higher than elsewhere, the rest of the surface being sunken or dished. The raised surface is intended to prevent the settling of water in the joints.
Water junket () The common sandpiper.
Water-laid (a.) Having a left-hand twist; -- said of cordage; as, a water-laid, or left-hand, rope.
Waterlander (n.) Alt. of Waterlandian
Waterlandian (n.) One of a body of Dutch Anabaptists who separated from the Mennonites in the sixteenth century; -- so called from a district in North Holland denominated Waterland.
Water laverock () The common sandpiper.
Waterleaf (n.) Any plant of the American genus Hydrophyllum, herbs having white or pale blue bell-shaped flowers.
Water leg () See Leg, 7.
Water lemon () The edible fruit of two species of passion flower (Passiflora laurifolia, and P. maliformis); -- so called in the West Indies.
Waterless (a.) Destitute of water; dry.
Water lettuce () A plant (Pistia stratiotes) which floats on tropical waters, and forms a rosette of spongy, wedge-shaped leaves.
Water level () The level formed by the surface of still water.
Water level () A kind of leveling instrument. See under Level, n.
Water lily () A blossom or plant of any species of the genus Nymphaea, distinguished for its large floating leaves and beautiful flowers. See Nymphaea.
Water lime () Hydraulic lime.
Water line () Any one of certain lines of a vessel, model, or plan, parallel with the surface of the water at various heights from the keel.
Water line () Any one of several lines marked upon the outside of a vessel, corresponding with the surface of the water when she is afloat on an even keel. The lowest line indicates the vessel's proper submergence when not loaded, and is called the light water line; the highest, called the load water line, indicates her proper submergence when loaded.
Water lizard () Any aquatic lizard of the genus Varanus, as the monitor of the Nile. See Monitor, n., 3.
Water locust () A thorny leguminous tree (Gleditschia monosperma) which grows in the swamps of the Mississippi valley.
Water-logged (a.) Filled or saturated with water so as to be heavy, unmanageable, or loglike; -- said of a vessel, when, by receiving a great quantity of water into her hold, she has become so heavy as not to be manageable by the helm.
Watermen (pl. ) of Waterman
Waterman (n.) A man who plies for hire on rivers, lakes, or canals, or in harbors, in distinction from a seaman who is engaged on the high seas; a man who manages fresh-water craft; a boatman; a ferryman.
Waterman (n.) An attendant on cab stands, etc., who supplies water to the horses.
Waterman (n.) A water demon.
Watermark (n.) A mark indicating the height to which water has risen, or at which it has stood; the usual limit of high or low water.
Watermark (n.) A letter, device, or the like, wrought into paper during the process of manufacture.
Watermark (n.) See Water line, 2.
Water meadow () A meadow, or piece of low, flat land, capable of being kept in a state of fertility by being overflowed with water from some adjoining river or stream.
Water measure () A measure formerly used for articles brought by water, as coals, oysters, etc. The water-measure bushel was three gallons larger than the Winchester bushel.
Water measurer () Any one of numerous species of water; the skater. See Skater, n., 2.
Watermelon (n.) The very large ovoid or roundish fruit of a cucurbitaceous plant (Citrullus vulgaris) of many varieties; also, the plant itself. The fruit sometimes weighs many pounds; its pulp is usually pink in color, and full of a sweet watery juice. It is a native of tropical Africa, but is now cultivated in many countries. See Illust. of Melon.
Water meter () A contrivance for measuring a supply of water delivered or received for any purpose, as from a street main.
Water milfoil () Any plant of the genus Myriophyllum, aquatic herbs with whorled leaves, the submersed ones pinnately parted into capillary divisions.
Water mill () A mill whose machinery is moved by water; -- distinguished from a windmill, and a steam mill.
Water mint () A kind of mint (Mentha aquatica) growing in wet places, and sometimes having a perfume resembling bergamot.
Water mite () Any of numerous species of aquatic mites belonging to Hydrachna and allied genera of the family Hydrachnidae, usually having the legs fringed and adapted for swimming. They are often red or red and black in color, and while young are parasites of fresh-water insects and mussels. Called also water tick, and water spider.
Water moccasin () A venomous North American snake (Ancistrodon piscivorus) allied to the rattlesnake but destitute of a rattle. It lives in or about pools and ponds, and feeds largely of fishes. Called also water snake, water adder, water viper.
Water mole () The shrew mole. See under Shrew.
Water mole () The duck mole. See under Duck.
Water monitor () A very large lizard (Varanaus salvator) native of India. It frequents the borders of streams and swims actively. It becomes five or six feet long. Called also two-banded monitor, and kabaragoya. The name is also applied to other aquatic monitors.
Water motor () A water engine.
Water motor () A water wheel; especially, a small water wheel driven by water from a street main.
Water mouse () Any one of several species of mice belonging to the genus Hydromys, native of Australia and Tasmania. Their hind legs are strong and their toes partially webbed. They live on the borders of streams, and swim well. They are remarkable as being the only rodents found in Australia.
Water murrain () A kind of murrain affecting cattle.
Water newt () Any one of numerous species of aquatic salamanders; a triton.
Water nymph () A goddess of any stream or other body of water, whether one of the Naiads, Nereids, or Oceanides.
Water nymph () A water lily (Nymphaea).
Water oat () Indian rice. See under Rice.
Water opossum () See Yapock, and the Note under Opossum.
Water ordeal () Same as Ordeal by water. See the Note under Ordeal, n., 1.
Water ousel () Alt. of Water ouzel
Water ouzel () Any one of several species of small insessorial birds of the genus Cinclus (or Hydrobates), especially the European water ousel (C. aquaticus), and the American water ousel (C. Mexicanus). These birds live about the water, and are in the habit of walking on the bottom of streams beneath the water in search of food.
Water parsnip () Any plant of the aquatic umbelliferous genus Sium, poisonous herbs with pinnate or dissected leaves and small white flowers.
Water partridge () The ruddy duck.
Water pennywort () Marsh pennywort. See under Marsh.
Water pepper () Smartweed.
Water pepper () Waterwort.
Water pheasant () The pintail. See Pintail, n., 1.
Water pheasant (n.) The goosander.
Water pheasant (n.) The hooded merganser.
Water piet () The water ousel.
Water pig () The capybara.
Water pig () The gourami.
Water pillar () A waterspout.
Water pimpernel () A small white-flowered shrub; brookweed.
Water pipe () A pipe for conveying water.
Water pitcher () A pitcher for water.
Water pitcher () One of a family of plants having pitcher-shaped leaves. The sidesaddle flower (Sarracenia purpurea) is the type.
Water plant () A plant that grows in water; an aquatic plant.
Water plantain () A kind of plant with acrid leaves. See under 2d Plantain.
Water plate () A plate heated by hot water contained in a double bottom or jacket.
Water poa () Meadow reed grass. See under Reed.
Water poise () A hydrometer.
Water pore () A pore by which the water tubes of various invertebrates open externally.
Water pore () One of certain minute pores in the leaves of some plants. They are without true guardian cells, but in other respects closely resemble ordinary stomata.
Waterpot (n.) A vessel for holding or conveying water, or for sprinkling water on cloth, plants, etc.
Water power () The power of water employed to move machinery, etc.
Water power () A fall of water which may be used to drive machinery; a site for a water mill; a water privilege.
Water pox () A variety of chicken pox, or varicella.
Water privilege () The advantage of using water as a mechanical power; also, the place where water is, or may be, so used. See under Privilege.
Waterproof (a.) Proof against penetration or permeation by water; impervious to water; as, a waterproof garment; a waterproof roof.
Waterproof (n.) A substance or preparation for rendering cloth, leather, etc., impervious to water.
Waterproof (n.) Cloth made waterproof, or any article made of such cloth, or of other waterproof material, as rubber; esp., an outer garment made of such material.
Waterproof (v. t.) To render impervious to water, as cloth, leather, etc.
Waterproofing (n.) The act or process of making waterproof.
Waterproofing (n.) Same as Waterproof, n., 1.
Water purslane () See under Purslane.
Water qualm () See Water brash, under Brash.
Water rabbit () See Water hare.
Water radish () A coarse yellow-flowered plant (Nasturtium amphibium) related to the water cress and to the horse-radish.
Water rail () Any one of numerous species of rails of the genus Rallus, as the common European species (Rallus aquaticus). See Illust. of Rail.
Water ram () An hydraulic ram.
Water rat () The water vole. See under Vole.
Water rat () The muskrat.
Water rat () The beaver rat. See under Beaver.
Water rat () A thief on the water; a pirate.
Water rate () A rate or tax for a supply of water.
Water rattle () Alt. of Water rattler
Water rattler () The diamond rattlesnake (Crotalus adamanteus); -- so called from its preference for damp places near water.
Water-retted (imp. & p. p.) of Water-ret
Water-retting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Water-ret
Water-ret (v. t.) To ret, or rot, in water, as flax; to water-rot.
Water rice () Indian rice. See under Rice.
Water rocket () A cruciferous plant (Nasturtium sylvestre) with small yellow flowers.
Water rocket () A kind of firework to be discharged in the water.
Water-rotted (imp. & p. p.) of Water-rot
Water-rotting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Water-rot
Water-rot (v. t.) To rot by steeping in water; to water-ret; as, to water-rot hemp or flax.
Water sail () A small sail sometimes set under a studding sail or under a driver boom, and reaching nearly to the water.
Water sapphire () A deep blue variety of iolite, sometimes used as a gem; -- called also saphir d'eau.
Waterscape (n.) A sea view; -- distinguished from landscape.
Water scorpion () See Nepa.
Water screw () A screw propeller.
Watershed (n.) The whole region or extent of country which contributes to the supply of a river or lake.
Watershed (n.) The line of division between two adjacent rivers or lakes with respect to the flow of water by natural channels into them; the natural boundary of a basin.
Water shield () An aquatic American plant (Brasenia peltata) having floating oval leaves, and the covered with a clear jelly.
Watershoot (n.) A sprig or shoot from the root or stock of a tree.
Watershoot (n.) That which serves to guard from falling water; a drip or dripstone.
Watershoot (n.) A trough for discharging water.
Water shrew () Any one of several species of shrews having fringed feet and capable of swimming actively. The two common European species (Crossopus fodiens, and C. ciliatus) are the best known. The most common American water shrew, or marsh shrew (Neosorex palustris), is rarely seen, owing to its nocturnal habits.
Water snail () Any aquatic pulmonate gastropod belonging to Planorbis, Limnaea, and allied genera; a pond snail.
Water snail () The Archimedean screw.
Water snake () A common North American colubrine snake (Tropidonotus sipedon) which lives chiefly in the water.
Water snake () Any species of snakes of the family Homalopsidae, all of which are aquatic in their habits.
Water-soak (v. t.) To soak water; to fill the interstices of with water.
Water soldier () An aquatic European plant (Stratiotes aloides) with bayonet-shaped leaves.
Water souchy () A dish consisting of small fish stewed and served in a little water.
Water spaniel () A curly-haired breed of spaniels, naturally very fond of the water.
Water sparrow () The reed warbler.
Water sparrow () The reed bunting.
Water speedwell () A kind of speedwell (Veronica Anagallis) found in wet places in Europe and America.
Water spider () An aquatic European spider (Argyoneta aquatica) which constructs its web beneath the surface of the water on water plants. It lives in a bell-shaped structure of silk, open beneath like a diving bell, and filled with air which the spider carries down in the form of small bubbles attached one at a time to the spinnerets and hind feet. Called also diving spider.
Water spider () A water mite.
Water spider () Any spider that habitually lives on or about the water, especially the large American species (Dolomedes lanceolatus) which runs rapidly on the surface of water; -- called also raft spider.
Water spinner () The water spider.
Waterspout (n.) A remarkable meteorological phenomenon, of the nature of a tornado or whirlwind, usually observed over the sea, but sometimes over the land.
Water sprite () A sprite, or spirit, imagined as inhabiting the water.
Water-standing (a.) Tear-filled.
Water star grass () An aquatic plant (Schollera graminea) with grassy leaves, and yellow star-shaped blossoms.
Water starwort () See under Starwort.
Water supply () A supply of water; specifically, water collected, as in reservoirs, and conveyed, as by pipes, for use in a city, mill, or the like.
Water tabby () A kind of waved or watered tabby. See Tabby, n., 1.
Water table () A molding, or other projection, in the wall of a building, to throw off the water, -- generally used in the United States for the first table above the surface of the ground (see Table, n., 9), that is, for the table at the top of the foundation and the beginning of the upper wall.
Watertath (n.) A kind of coarse grass growing in wet grounds, and supposed to be injurious to sheep.
Water thermometer () A thermometer filled with water instead of mercury, for ascertaining the precise temperature at which water attains its maximum density. This is about 39 Fahr., or 4 Centigrade; and from that point down to 32 Fahr., or 0 Centigrade, or the freezing point, it expands.
Water thief () A pirate.
Water thrush () A North American bird of the genus Seiurus, belonging to the Warbler family, especially the common species (S. Noveboracensis).
Water thrush () The European water ousel.
Water thrush () The pied wagtail.
Water thyme () See Anacharis.
Water tick () Same as Water mite.
Water tiger () A diving, or water, beetle, especially the larva of a water beetle. See Illust. b of Water beetle.
Water-tight (a.) So tight as to retain, or not to admit, water; not leaky.
Water torch () The common cat-tail (Typha latifolia), the spike of which makes a good torch soaked in oil.
Water tower () A large metal pipe made to be extended vertically by sections, and used for discharging water upon burning buildings.
Water tree () A climbing shrub (Tetracera alnifolia, / potatoria) of Western Africa, which pours out a watery sap from the freshly cut stems.
Water trefoil () The buck bean.
Water tube () One of a system of tubular excretory organs having external openings, found in many invertebrates. They are believed to be analogous in function to the kidneys of vertebrates. See Illust. under Trematodea, and Sporocyst.
Water tupelo () A species of large tupelo (Nyssa aquatica) growing in swamps in the southern of the United States. See Ogeechee lime.
Water turkey () The American snakebird. See Snakebird.
Water tu tuyere () A tuyere kept cool by water circulating within a casing. It is used for hot blast.
Water tu twist () Yarn made by the throstle, or water frame.
Water vine () Any plant of the genus Phytocrene, climbing shrubs of Asia and Africa, the stems of which are singularly porous, and when cut stream with a limpid potable juice.
Water violet () See under Violet.
Water viper () See Water moccasin.
Water vole () See under Vole.
Water wagtail () See under Wagtail.
Waterway (n.) Heavy plank or timber extending fore and aft the whole length of a vessel's deck at the line of junction with the sides, forming a channel to the scuppers, which are cut through it. In iron vessels the waterway is variously constructed.
Water way () Same as Water course.
Waterweed (n.) See Anacharis.
Water wheel () Any wheel for propelling machinery or for other purposes, that is made to rotate by the direct action of water; -- called an overshot wheel when the water is applied at the top, an undershot wheel when at the bottom, a breast wheel when at an intermediate point; other forms are called reaction wheel, vortex wheel, turbine wheel, etc.
Water wheel () The paddle wheel of a steam vessel.
Water wheel () A wheel for raising water; a noria, or the like.
Water willow () An American aquatic plant (Dianthera Americana) with long willowlike leaves, and spikes of small purplish flowers.
Water wing () One of two walls built on either side of the junction of a bridge with the bank of a river, to protect the abutment of the bridge and the bank from the action of the current.
Water witch () The dabchick.
Water witch () The stormy petrel.
Water-white (n.) A vinelike plant (Vitis Caribaea) growing in parched districts in the West Indies, and containing a great amount of sap which is sometimes used for quenching thirst.
Waterwork (n.) Painting executed in size or distemper, on canvas or walls, -- formerly, frequently taking the place of tapestry.
Waterwork (n.) An hydraulic apparatus, or a system of works or fixtures, by which a supply of water is furnished for useful or ornamental purposes, including dams, sluices, pumps, aqueducts, distributing pipes, fountains, etc.; -- used chiefly in the plural.
Waterworn (a.) Worn, smoothed, or polished by the action of water; as, waterworn stones.
Waterwort (n.) Any plant of the natural order Elatineae, consisting of two genera (Elatine, and Bergia), mostly small annual herbs growing in the edges of ponds. Some have a peppery or acrid taste.
Watery (a.) Of or pertaining to water; consisting of water.
Watery (a.) Abounding with water; wet; hence, tearful.
Watery (a.) Resembling water; thin or transparent, as a liquid; as, watery humors.
Watery (a.) Hence, abounding in thin, tasteless, or insipid fluid; tasteless; insipid; vapid; spiritless.
Watt (n.) A unit of power or activity equal to 107 C.G.S. units of power, or to work done at the rate of one joule a second. An English horse power is approximately equal to 746 watts.
Wattmeter (n.) An instrument for measuring power in watts, -- much used in measuring the energy of an electric current.
Wattle (n.) A twig or flexible rod; hence, a hurdle made of such rods.
Wattle (n.) A rod laid on a roof to support the thatch.
Wattle (n.) A naked fleshy, and usually wrinkled and highly colored, process of the skin hanging from the chin or throat of a bird or reptile.
Wattle (n.) Barbel of a fish.
Wattle (n.) The astringent bark of several Australian trees of the genus Acacia, used in tanning; -- called also wattle bark.
Wattle (n.) The trees from which the bark is obtained. See Savanna wattle, under Savanna.
Wattled (imp. & p. p.) of Wattle
Wattling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wattle
Wattle (v. t.) To bind with twigs.
Wattle (v. t.) To twist or interweave, one with another, as twigs; to form a network with; to plat; as, to wattle branches.
Wattle (v. t.) To form, by interweaving or platting twigs.
Wattlebird (n.) Any one of several species of honey eaters belonging to Anthochaera and allied genera of the family Meliphagidae. These birds usually have a large and conspicuous wattle of naked skin hanging down below each ear. They are natives of Australia and adjacent islands.
Wattlebird (n.) The Australian brush turkey.
Wattled (a.) Furnished with wattles, or pendent fleshy processes at the chin or throat.
Wattling (n.) The act or process of binding or platting with twigs; also, the network so formed.
Waucht (n.) Alt. of Waught
Waught (n.) A large draught of any liquid.
Waul (v. i.) To cry as a cat; to squall; to wail.
Waur (a.) Worse.
Wave (v. t.) See Waive.
Waved (imp. & p. p.) of Wave
Waving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wave
Wave (v. i.) To play loosely; to move like a wave, one way and the other; to float; to flutter; to undulate.
Wave (v. i.) To be moved to and fro as a signal.
Wave (v. i.) To fluctuate; to waver; to be in an unsettled state; to vacillate.
Wave (v. t.) To move one way and the other; to brandish.
Wave (v. t.) To raise into inequalities of surface; to give an undulating form a surface to.
Wave (v. t.) To move like a wave, or by floating; to waft.
Wave (v. t.) To call attention to, or give a direction or command to, by a waving motion, as of the hand; to signify by waving; to beckon; to signal; to indicate.
Wave (v. i.) An advancing ridge or swell on the surface of a liquid, as of the sea, resulting from the oscillatory motion of the particles composing it when disturbed by any force their position of rest; an undulation.
Wave (v. i.) A vibration propagated from particle to particle through a body or elastic medium, as in the transmission of sound; an assemblage of vibrating molecules in all phases of a vibration, with no phase repeated; a wave of vibration; an undulation. See Undulation.
Wave (v. i.) Water; a body of water.
Wave (v. i.) Unevenness; inequality of surface.
Wave (v. i.) A waving or undulating motion; a signal made with the hand, a flag, etc.
Wave (v. i.) The undulating line or streak of luster on cloth watered, or calendered, or on damask steel.
Wave (v. i.) Fig.: A swelling or excitement of thought, feeling, or energy; a tide; as, waves of enthusiasm.
Waved (a.) Exhibiting a wavelike form or outline; undulating; intended; wavy; as, waved edge.
Waved (a.) Having a wavelike appearance; marked with wavelike lines of color; as, waved, or watered, silk.
Waved (a.) Having undulations like waves; -- said of one of the lines in heraldry which serve as outlines to the ordinaries, etc.
Waveless (a.) Free from waves; undisturbed; not agitated; as, the waveless sea.
Wavelet (n.) A little wave; a ripple.
Wavellite (n.) A hydrous phosphate of alumina, occurring usually in hemispherical radiated forms varying in color from white to yellow, green, or black.
Wavered (imp. & p. p.) of Waver
Wavering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Waver
Waver (v. i.) To play or move to and fro; to move one way and the other; hence, to totter; to reel; to swing; to flutter.
Waver (v. i.) To be unsettled in opinion; to vacillate; to be undetermined; to fluctuate; as, to water in judgment.
Waver (v.) A sapling left standing in a fallen wood.
Waverer (n.) One who wavers; one who is unsettled in doctrine, faith, opinion, or the like.
Waveringly (adv.) In a wavering manner.
Waveringness (n.) The quality or state of wavering.
Waveson (n.) Goods which, after shipwreck, appear floating on the waves, or sea.
Waveworn (a.) Worn by the waves.
Wavey (n.) The snow goose.
Waviness (n.) The quality or state of being wavy.
Wavure (n.) See Waivure.
Wavy (a.) Rising or swelling in waves; full of waves.
Wavy (a.) Playing to and fro; undulating; as, wavy flames.
Wavy (a.) Undulating on the border or surface; waved.
Wawaskeesh (n.) The wapiti, or wapiti, or American elk.
Wave (n.) Woe.
Wawe (n.) A wave.
Wawl (v. i.) See Waul.
Waxed (imp.) of Wax
Waxed (p. p.) of Wax
Waxen () of Wax
Waxing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wax
Wax (v. i.) To increase in size; to grow bigger; to become larger or fuller; -- opposed to wane.
Wax (v. i.) To pass from one state to another; to become; to grow; as, to wax strong; to wax warmer or colder; to wax feeble; to wax old; to wax worse and worse.
Wax (n.) A fatty, solid substance, produced by bees, and employed by them in the construction of their comb; -- usually called beeswax. It is first excreted, from a row of pouches along their sides, in the form of scales, which, being masticated and mixed with saliva, become whitened and tenacious. Its natural color is pale or dull yellow.
Wax (n.) Hence, any substance resembling beeswax in consistency or appearance.
Wax (n.) Cerumen, or earwax.
Wax (n.) A waxlike composition used for uniting surfaces, for excluding air, and for other purposes; as, sealing wax, grafting wax, etching wax, etc.
Wax (n.) A waxlike composition used by shoemakers for rubbing their thread.
Wax (n.) A substance similar to beeswax, secreted by several species of scale insects, as the Chinese wax. See Wax insect, below.
Wax (n.) A waxlike product secreted by certain plants. See Vegetable wax, under Vegetable.
Wax (n.) A substance, somewhat resembling wax, found in connection with certain deposits of rock salt and coal; -- called also mineral wax, and ozocerite.
Wax (n.) Thick sirup made by boiling down the sap of the sugar maple, and then cooling.
Waxed (imp. & p. p.) of Wax
Waxing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wax
Wax (v. t.) To smear or rub with wax; to treat with wax; as, to wax a thread or a table.
Waxberry (n.) The wax-covered fruit of the wax myrtle, or bayberry. See Bayberry, and Candleberry tree.
Waxbill (n.) Any one of numerous species of finchlike birds belonging to Estrelda and allied genera, native of Asia, Africa, and Australia. The bill is large, conical, and usually red in color, resembling sealing wax. Several of the species are often kept as cage birds.
Waxbird () The waxwing.
Waxen (a.) Made of wax.
Waxen (a.) Covered with wax; waxed; as, a waxen tablet.
Waxen (a.) Resembling wax; waxy; hence, soft; yielding.
Waxiness (n.) Quality or state of being waxy.
Waxwing (n.) Any one of several species of small birds of the genus Ampelis, in which some of the secondary quills are usually tipped with small horny ornaments resembling red sealing wax. The Bohemian waxwing (see under Bohemian) and the cedar bird are examples. Called also waxbird.
Waxwork (n.) Work made of wax; especially, a figure or figures formed or partly of wax, in imitation of real beings.
Waxwork (n.) An American climbing shrub (Celastrus scandens). It bears a profusion of yellow berrylike pods, which open in the autumn, and display the scarlet coverings of the seeds.
Waxworker (n.) One who works in wax; one who makes waxwork.
Waxworker (n.) A bee that makes or produces wax.
Waxy (a.) Resembling wax in appearance or consistency; viscid; adhesive; soft; hence, yielding; pliable; impressible.
Way (adv.) Away.
Way (n.) That by, upon, or along, which one passes or processes; opportunity or room to pass; place of passing; passage; road, street, track, or path of any kind; as, they built a way to the mine.
Way (n.) Length of space; distance; interval; as, a great way; a long way.
Way (n.) A moving; passage; procession; journey.
Way (n.) Course or direction of motion or process; tendency of action; advance.
Way (n.) The means by which anything is reached, or anything is accomplished; scheme; device; plan.
Way (n.) Manner; method; mode; fashion; style; as, the way of expressing one's ideas.
Way (n.) Regular course; habitual method of life or action; plan of conduct; mode of dealing.
Way (n.) Sphere or scope of observation.
Way (n.) Determined course; resolved mode of action or conduct; as, to have one's way.
Way (n.) Progress; as, a ship has way.
Way (n.) The timbers on which a ship is launched.
Way (n.) The longitudinal guides, or guiding surfaces, on the bed of a planer, lathe, or the like, along which a table or carriage moves.
Way (n.) Right of way. See below.
Way (v. t.) To go or travel to; to go in, as a way or path.
Way (v. i.) To move; to progress; to go.
Waybill (n.) A list of passengers in a public vehicle, or of the baggage or gods transported by a common carrier on a land route. When the goods are transported by water, the list is called a bill of lading.
Waybread (n.) The common dooryard plantain (Plantago major).
Waybung (n.) An Australian insessorial bird (Corcorax melanorhamphus) noted for the curious actions of the male during the breeding season. It is black with a white patch on each wing.
Wayed (a.) Used to the way; broken.
Wayfare (v. i.) To journey; to travel; to go to and fro.
Wayfare (n.) The act of journeying; travel; passage.
Wayfarer (n.) One who travels; a traveler; a passenger.
Wayfaring (a.) Traveling; passing; being on a journey.
Waygate (n.) The tailrace of a mill.
Way-going (a.) Going away; departing; of or pertaining to one who goes away.
Way-goose (n.) See Wayz-goose, n., 2.
Wayk (a.) Weak.
Waylaid (imp. & p. p.) of Waylay
Waylaying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Waylay
Waylay (v. t.) To lie in wait for; to meet or encounter in the way; especially, to watch for the passing of, with a view to seize, rob, or slay; to beset in ambush.
Waylayer (n.) One who waylays another.
Wayless (a.) Having no road or path; pathless.
Wayleway (interj.) See Welaway.
Waymaker (n.) One who makes a way; a precursor.
Waymark (n.) A mark to guide in traveling.
Waymented (imp. & p. p.) of Wayment
Waymenting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wayment
Wayment (v. i.) To lament; to grieve; to wail.
Wayment (n.) Grief; lamentation; mourning.
Way shaft () A rock shaft.
Way shaft () An interior shaft, usually one connecting two levels.
-ways () A suffix formed from way by the addition of the adverbial -s (see -wards). It is often used interchangeably with wise; as, endways or endwise; noways or nowise, etc.
Wayside (n.) The side of the way; the edge or border of a road or path.
Wayside (a.) Of or pertaining to the wayside; as, wayside flowers.
Wayward (a.) Taking one's own way; disobedient; froward; perverse; willful.
Way-wise (a.) Skillful in finding the way; well acquainted with the way or route; wise from having traveled.
Waywiser (n.) An instrument for measuring the distance which one has traveled on the road; an odometer, pedometer, or perambulator.
Waywode (n.) Originally, the title of a military commander in various Slavonic countries; afterwards applied to governors of towns or provinces. It was assumed for a time by the rulers of Moldavia and Wallachia, who were afterwards called hospodars, and has also been given to some inferior Turkish officers.
Waywodeship (n.) The office, province, or jurisdiction of a waywode.
Wayworn (a.) Wearied by traveling.
Wayz-goose (n.) A stubble goose.
Wayz-goose (n.) An annual feast of the persons employed in a printing office.
We (obj.) The plural nominative case of the pronoun of the first person; the word with which a person in speaking or writing denotes a number or company of which he is one, as the subject of an action expressed by a verb.
Weak (v. i.) Wanting physical strength.
Weak (v. i.) Deficient in strength of body; feeble; infirm; sickly; debilitated; enfeebled; exhausted.
Weak (v. i.) Not able to sustain a great weight, pressure, or strain; as, a weak timber; a weak rope.
Weak (v. i.) Not firmly united or adhesive; easily broken or separated into pieces; not compact; as, a weak ship.
Weak (v. i.) Not stiff; pliant; frail; soft; as, the weak stalk of a plant.
Weak (v. i.) Not able to resist external force or onset; easily subdued or overcome; as, a weak barrier; as, a weak fortress.
Weak (v. i.) Lacking force of utterance or sound; not sonorous; low; small; feeble; faint.
Weak (v. i.) Not thoroughly or abundantly impregnated with the usual or required ingredients, or with stimulating and nourishing substances; of less than the usual strength; as, weak tea, broth, or liquor; a weak decoction or solution; a weak dose of medicine.
Weak (v. i.) Lacking ability for an appropriate function or office; as, weak eyes; a weak stomach; a weak magistrate; a weak regiment, or army.
Weak (v. i.) Not possessing or manifesting intellectual, logical, moral, or political strength, vigor, etc.
Weak (v. i.) Feeble of mind; wanting discernment; lacking vigor; spiritless; as, a weak king or magistrate.
Weak (v. i.) Resulting from, or indicating, lack of judgment, discernment, or firmness; unwise; hence, foolish.
Weak (v. i.) Not having full confidence or conviction; not decided or confirmed; vacillating; wavering.
Weak (v. i.) Not able to withstand temptation, urgency, persuasion, etc.; easily impressed, moved, or overcome; accessible; vulnerable; as, weak resolutions; weak virtue.
Weak (v. i.) Wanting in power to influence or bind; as, weak ties; a weak sense of honor of duty.
Weak (v. i.) Not having power to convince; not supported by force of reason or truth; unsustained; as, a weak argument or case.
Weak (v. i.) Wanting in point or vigor of expression; as, a weak sentence; a weak style.
Weak (v. i.) Not prevalent or effective, or not felt to be prevalent; not potent; feeble.
Weak (v. i.) Lacking in elements of political strength; not wielding or having authority or energy; deficient in the resources that are essential to a ruler or nation; as, a weak monarch; a weak government or state.
Weak (v. i.) Tending towards lower prices; as, a weak market.
Weak (v. i.) Pertaining to, or designating, a verb which forms its preterit (imperfect) and past participle by adding to the present the suffix -ed, -d, or the variant form -t; as in the verbs abash, abashed; abate, abated; deny, denied; feel, felt. See Strong, 19 (a).
Weak (v. i.) Pertaining to, or designating, a noun in Anglo-Saxon, etc., the stem of which ends in -n. See Strong, 19 (b).
Weak (a.) To make or become weak; to weaken.
Weakened (imp. & p. p.) of Weaken
Weakening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Weaken
Weaken (v. t.) To make weak; to lessen the strength of; to deprive of strength; to debilitate; to enfeeble; to enervate; as, to weaken the body or the mind; to weaken the hands of a magistrate; to weaken the force of an objection or an argument.
Weaken (v. t.) To reduce in quality, strength, or spirit; as, to weaken tea; to weaken any solution or decoction.
Weaken (v. i.) To become weak or weaker; to lose strength, spirit, or determination; to become less positive or resolute; as, the patient weakened; the witness weakened on cross-examination.
Weakener (n.) One who, or that which, weakens.
Weakfish (n.) Any fish of the genus Cynoscion; a squeteague; -- so called from its tender mouth. See Squeteague.
Weak-hearted (a.) Having little courage; of feeble spirit; dispirited; faint-hearted.
Weakish (a.) Somewhat weak; rather weak.
Weakishness (n.) Quality or state of being weakish.
Weak-kneed (a.) Having weak knees; hence, easily yielding; wanting resolution.
Weakling (n.) A weak or feeble creature.
Weakling (a.) Weak; feeble.
Weakly (adv.) In a weak manner; with little strength or vigor; feebly.
Weakly (superl.) Not strong of constitution; infirm; feeble; as, a weakly woman; a man of a weakly constitution.
Weak-minded (a.) Having a weak mind, either naturally or by reason of disease; feebleminded; foolish; idiotic.
Weakness (n.) The quality or state of being weak; want of strength or firmness; lack of vigor; want of resolution or of moral strength; feebleness.
Weakness (n.) That which is a mark of lack of strength or resolution; a fault; a defect.
Weal (n.) The mark of a stripe. See Wale.
Weal (v. t.) To mark with stripes. See Wale.
Weal (adv.) A sound, healthy, or prosperous state of a person or thing; prosperity; happiness; welfare.
Weal (adv.) The body politic; the state; common wealth.
Weal (v. t.) To promote the weal of; to cause to be prosperous.
Weal-balanced (a.) Balanced or considered with reference to public weal.
Weald (n.) A wood or forest; a wooded land or region; also, an open country; -- often used in place names.
Wealden (a.) Of or pertaining to the lowest division of the Cretaceous formation in England and on the Continent, which overlies the Oolitic series.
Wealden (n.) The Wealden group or strata.
Wealdish (a.) Of or pertaining to a weald, esp. to the weald in the county of Kent, England.
Wealful (a.) Weleful.
Wealsmen (pl. ) of Wealsman
Wealsman (n.) A statesman; a politician.
Wealth (n.) Weal; welfare; prosperity; good.
Wealth (n.) Large possessions; a comparative abundance of things which are objects of human desire; esp., abundance of worldly estate; affluence; opulence; riches.
Wealthful (a.) Full of wealth; wealthy; prosperous.
Wealthily (adv.) In a wealthy manner; richly.
Wealthiness (n.) The quality or state of being wealthy, or rich; richness; opulence.
Wealthy (superl.) Having wealth; having large possessions, or larger than most men, as lands, goods, money, or securities; opulent; affluent; rich.
Wealthy (superl.) Hence, ample; full; satisfactory; abundant.
Weaned (imp. & p. p.) of Wean
Weaning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wean
Wean (a.) To accustom and reconcile, as a child or other young animal, to a want or deprivation of mother's milk; to take from the breast or udder; to cause to cease to depend on the mother nourishment.
Wean (a.) Hence, to detach or alienate the affections of, from any object of desire; to reconcile to the want or loss of anything.
Wean (n.) A weanling; a young child.
Weanedness (n.) Quality or state of being weaned.
Weanel (n.) A weanling.
Weanling () a. & n. from Wean, v.
Weanling (n.) A child or animal newly weaned; a wean.
Weanling (a.) Recently weaned.
Weapon (n.) An instrument of offensive of defensive combat; something to fight with; anything used, or designed to be used, in destroying, defeating, or injuring an enemy, as a gun, a sword, etc.
Weapon (n.) Fig.: The means or instrument with which one contends against another; as, argument was his only weapon.
Weapon (n.) A thorn, prickle, or sting with which many plants are furnished.
Weaponed (a.) Furnished with weapons, or arms; armed; equipped.
Weaponless (a.) Having no weapon.
Weaponry (n.) Weapons, collectively; as, an array of weaponry.
Wear (n.) Same as Weir.
Wear (v. t.) To cause to go about, as a vessel, by putting the helm up, instead of alee as in tacking, so that the vessel's bow is turned away from, and her stern is presented to, the wind, and, as she turns still farther, her sails fill on the other side; to veer.
Wore (imp.) of Wear
Worn (p. p.) of Wear
Wearing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wear
Weared (imp. & p. p.) of Wear
Wear (v. t.) To carry or bear upon the person; to bear upon one's self, as an article of clothing, decoration, warfare, bondage, etc.; to have appendant to one's body; to have on; as, to wear a coat; to wear a shackle.
Wear (v. t.) To have or exhibit an appearance of, as an aspect or manner; to bear; as, she wears a smile on her countenance.
Wear (v. t.) To use up by carrying or having upon one's self; hence, to consume by use; to waste; to use up; as, to wear clothes rapidly.
Wear (v. t.) To impair, waste, or diminish, by continual attrition, scraping, percussion, on the like; to consume gradually; to cause to lower or disappear; to spend.
Wear (v. t.) To cause or make by friction or wasting; as, to wear a channel; to wear a hole.
Wear (v. t.) To form or shape by, or as by, attrition.
Wear (v. i.) To endure or suffer use; to last under employment; to bear the consequences of use, as waste, consumption, or attrition; as, a coat wears well or ill; -- hence, sometimes applied to character, qualifications, etc.; as, a man wears well as an acquaintance.
Wear (v. i.) To be wasted, consumed, or diminished, by being used; to suffer injury, loss, or extinction by use or time; to decay, or be spent, gradually.
Wear (n.) The act of wearing, or the state of being worn; consumption by use; diminution by friction; as, the wear of a garment.
Wear (n.) The thing worn; style of dress; the fashion.
Wearable (a.) Capable of being worn; suitable to be worn.
Wearer (n.) One who wears or carries as appendant to the body; as, the wearer of a cloak, a sword, a crown, a shackle, etc.
Wearer (n.) That which wastes or diminishes.
Weariable (a.) That may be wearied.
Weariful (a.) Abounding in qualities which cause weariness; wearisome.
Weariless (a.) Incapable of being wearied.
Wearily (adv.) In a weary manner.
Weariness (n.) The quality or state of being weary or tried; lassitude; exhaustion of strength; fatigue.
Wearing (n.) The act of one who wears; the manner in which a thing wears; use; conduct; consumption.
Wearing (n.) That which is worn; clothes; garments.
Wearing (a.) Pertaining to, or designed for, wear; as, wearing apparel.
Wearish (a.) Weak; withered; shrunk.
Wearish (a.) Insipid; tasteless; unsavory.
Wearisome (a.) Causing weariness; tiresome; tedious; weariful; as, a wearisome march; a wearisome day's work; a wearisome book.
Weary (superl.) Having the strength exhausted by toil or exertion; worn out in respect to strength, endurance, etc.; tired; fatigued.
Weary (superl.) Causing weariness; tiresome.
Weary (superl.) Having one's patience, relish, or contentment exhausted; tired; sick; -- with of before the cause; as, weary of marching, or of confinement; weary of study.
Wearied (imp. & p. p.) of Weary
Wearying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Weary
Weary (v. t.) To reduce or exhaust the physical strength or endurance of; to tire; to fatigue; as, to weary one's self with labor or traveling.
Weary (v. t.) To make weary of anything; to exhaust the patience of, as by continuance.
Weary (v. t.) To harass by anything irksome.
Weary (v. i.) To grow tired; to become exhausted or impatient; as, to weary of an undertaking.
Weasand (n.) The windpipe; -- called also, formerly, wesil.
Weasel (n.) Any one of various species of small carnivores belonging to the genus Putorius, as the ermine and ferret. They have a slender, elongated body, and are noted for the quickness of their movements and for their bloodthirsty habit in destroying poultry, rats, etc. The ermine and some other species are brown in summer, and turn white in winter; others are brown at all seasons.
Weasel-faced (a.) Having a thin, sharp face, like a weasel.
Weaser (n.) The American merganser; -- called also weaser sheldrake.
Weasiness (n.) Quality or state of being weasy; full feeding; sensual indulgence.
Weasy (a.) Given to sensual indulgence; gluttonous.
Weather (n.) The state of the air or atmosphere with respect to heat or cold, wetness or dryness, calm or storm, clearness or cloudiness, or any other meteorological phenomena; meteorological condition of the atmosphere; as, warm weather; cold weather; wet weather; dry weather, etc.
Weather (n.) Vicissitude of season; meteorological change; alternation of the state of the air.
Weather (n.) Storm; tempest.
Weather (n.) A light rain; a shower.
Weathered (imp. & p. p.) of Weather
Weathering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Weather
Weather (v. t.) To expose to the air; to air; to season by exposure to air.
Weather (v. t.) Hence, to sustain the trying effect of; to bear up against and overcome; to sustain; to endure; to resist; as, to weather the storm.
Weather (v. t.) To sail or pass to the windward of; as, to weather a cape; to weather another ship.
Weather (v. t.) To place (a hawk) unhooded in the open air.
Weather (v. i.) To undergo or endure the action of the atmosphere; to suffer meteorological influences; sometimes, to wear away, or alter, under atmospheric influences; to suffer waste by weather.
Weather (a.) Being toward the wind, or windward -- opposed to lee; as, weather bow, weather braces, weather gauge, weather lifts, weather quarter, weather shrouds, etc.
Weather-beaten (a.) Beaten or harassed by the weather; worn by exposure to the weather, especially to severe weather.
Weather-bit (n.) A turn of the cable about the end of the windlass, without the bits.
Weatherbit (v. t.) To take another turn with, as a cable around a windlass.
Weather-bitten (a.) Eaten into, defaced, or worn, by exposure to the weather.
Weatherboard (n.) That side of a vessel which is toward the wind; the windward side.
Weatherboard (n.) A piece of plank placed in a porthole, or other opening, to keep out water.
Weatherboard (n.) A board extending from the ridge to the eaves along the slope of the gable, and forming a close junction between the shingling of a roof and the side of the building beneath.
Weatherboard (n.) A clapboard or feather-edged board used in weatherboarding.
Weather-board (v. t.) To nail boards upon so as to lap one over another, in order to exclude rain, snow, etc.
Weatherboarding (n.) The covering or siding of a building, formed of boards lapping over one another, to exclude rain, snow, etc.
Weatherboarding (n.) Boards adapted or intended for such use.
Weather-bound (a.) Kept in port or at anchor by storms; delayed by bad weather; as, a weather-bound vessel.
Weathercock (n.) A vane, or weather vane; -- so called because originally often in the figure of a cock, turning on the top of a spire with the wind, and showing its direction.
Weathercock (n.) Hence, any thing or person that turns easily and frequently; one who veers with every change of current opinion; a fickle, inconstant person.
Weathercock (v. t.) To supply with a weathercock; to serve as a weathercock for.
Weather-driven (a.) Driven by winds or storms; forced by stress of weather.
Weathered (a.) Made sloping, so as to throw off water; as, a weathered cornice or window sill.
Weathered (a.) Having the surface altered in color, texture, or composition, or the edges rounded off by exposure to the elements.
Weather-fend (v. t.) To defend from the weather; to shelter.
Weatherglass (n.) An instrument to indicate the state of the atmosphere, especially changes of atmospheric pressure, and hence changes of weather, as a barometer or baroscope.
Weathering (n.) The action of the elements on a rock in altering its color, texture, or composition, or in rounding off its edges.
Weatherliness (n.) The quality of being weatherly.
Weatherly (a.) Working, or able to sail, close to the wind; as, a weatherly ship.
Weathermost (a.) Being farthest to the windward.
Weatherproof (a.) Proof against rough weather.
Weatherwise (a.) Skillful in forecasting the changes of the weather.
Weatherwiser (n.) Something that foreshows the weather.
Weatherworn (a.) Worn by the action of, or by exposure to, the weather.
Wove (imp.) of Weave
Woven (p. p.) of Weave
Wove () of Weave
Weaving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Weave
Weaved (imp. & p. p.) of Weave
Weave (v. t.) To unite, as threads of any kind, in such a manner as to form a texture; to entwine or interlace into a fabric; as, to weave wool, silk, etc.; hence, to unite by close connection or intermixture; to unite intimately.
Weave (v. t.) To form, as cloth, by interlacing threads; to compose, as a texture of any kind, by putting together textile materials; as, to weave broadcloth; to weave a carpet; hence, to form into a fabric; to compose; to fabricate; as, to weave the plot of a story.
Weave (v. i.) To practice weaving; to work with a loom.
Weave (v. i.) To become woven or interwoven.
Weave (n.) A particular method or pattern of weaving; as, the cassimere weave.
Weaver (n.) One who weaves, or whose occupation is to weave.
Weaver (n.) A weaver bird.
Weaver (n.) An aquatic beetle of the genus Gyrinus. See Whirling.
Weaverfish (n.) See Weever.
Weaving (n.) The act of one who, or that which, weaves; the act or art of forming cloth in a loom by the union or intertexture of threads.
Weaving (n.) An incessant motion of a horse's head, neck, and body, from side to side, fancied to resemble the motion of a hand weaver in throwing the shuttle.
Weazand (n.) See Weasand.
Weazen (a.) Thin; sharp; withered; wizened; as, a weazen face.
Weazeny (a.) Somewhat weazen; shriveled.
Web (n.) A weaver.
Web (n.) That which is woven; a texture; textile fabric; esp., something woven in a loom.
Web (n.) A whole piece of linen cloth as woven.
Web (n.) The texture of very fine thread spun by a spider for catching insects at its prey; a cobweb.
Web (n.) Fig.: Tissue; texture; complicated fabrication.
Web (n.) A band of webbing used to regulate the extension of the hood.
Web (n.) A thin metal sheet, plate, or strip, as of lead.
Web (n.) The blade of a sword.
Web (n.) The blade of a saw.
Web (n.) The thin, sharp part of a colter.
Web (n.) The bit of a key.
Web (n.) A plate or thin portion, continuous or perforated, connecting stiffening ribs or flanges, or other parts of an object.
Web (n.) The thin vertical plate or portion connecting the upper and lower flanges of an lower flanges of an iron girder, rolled beam, or railroad rail.
Web (n.) A disk or solid construction serving, instead of spokes, for connecting the rim and hub, in some kinds of car wheels, sheaves, etc.
Web (n.) The arm of a crank between the shaft and the wrist.
Web (n.) The part of a blackmith's anvil between the face and the foot.
Web (n.) Pterygium; -- called also webeye.
Web (n.) The membrane which unites the fingers or toes, either at their bases, as in man, or for a greater part of their length, as in many water birds and amphibians.
Web (n.) The series of barbs implanted on each side of the shaft of a feather, whether stiff and united together by barbules, as in ordinary feathers, or soft and separate, as in downy feathers. See Feather.
Webbed (imp. & p. p.) of Web
Webbing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Web
Web (v. t.) To unite or surround with a web, or as if with a web; to envelop; to entangle.
Webbed (a.) Provided with a web.
Webbed (a.) Having the toes united by a membrane, or web; as, the webbed feet of aquatic fowls.
Webber (n.) One who forms webs; a weaver; a webster.
Webbing (n.) A woven band of cotton or flax, used for reins, girths, bed bottoms, etc.
Webby (a.) Of or pertaining to a web or webs; like a web; filled or covered with webs.
Weber (n.) The standard unit of electrical quantity, and also of current. See Coulomb, and Amp/re.
Webeye (n.) See Web, n., 8.
Web-fingered (a.) Having the fingers united by a web for a considerable part of their length.
Webfeet (pl. ) of Webfoot
Webfoot (n.) A foot the toes of which are connected by a membrane.
Webfoot (n.) Any web-footed bird.
Web-footed (a.) Having webbed feet; palmiped; as, a goose or a duck is a web-footed fowl.
Webster (n.) A weaver; originally, a female weaver.
Websterite (n.) A hydrous sulphate of alumina occurring in white reniform masses.
Web-toed (a.) Having the toes united by a web for a considerable part of their length.
Webform (n.) Any one of various species of moths whose gregarious larvae eat the leaves of trees, and construct a large web to which they retreat when not feeding.
Wed (n.) A pledge; a pawn.
Wedded (imp.) of Wed
Wedded (p. p.) of Wed
Wed () of Wed
Wedding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wed
Wed (n.) To take for husband or for wife by a formal ceremony; to marry; to espouse.
Wed (n.) To join in marriage; to give in wedlock.
Wed (n.) Fig.: To unite as if by the affections or the bond of marriage; to attach firmly or indissolubly.
Wed (n.) To take to one's self and support; to espouse.
Wed (v. i.) To contact matrimony; to marry.
Weddahs (n. pl.) See Veddahs.
Wedded (a.) Joined in wedlock; married.
Wedded (a.) Of or pertaining to wedlock, or marriage.
Wedder (n.) See Wether.
Wedding (n.) Nuptial ceremony; nuptial festivities; marriage; nuptials.
Weder (n.) Weather.
Wedge (n.) A piece of metal, or other hard material, thick at one end, and tapering to a thin edge at the other, used in splitting wood, rocks, etc., in raising heavy bodies, and the like. It is one of the six elementary machines called the mechanical powers. See Illust. of Mechanical powers, under Mechanical.
Wedge (n.) A solid of five sides, having a rectangular base, two rectangular or trapezoidal sides meeting in an edge, and two triangular ends.
Wedge (n.) A mass of metal, especially when of a wedgelike form.
Wedge (n.) Anything in the form of a wedge, as a body of troops drawn up in such a form.
Wedge (n.) The person whose name stands lowest on the list of the classical tripos; -- so called after a person (Wedgewood) who occupied this position on the first list of 1828.
Wedged (imp. & p. p.) of Wedge
Wedging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wedge
Wedge (v. t.) To cleave or separate with a wedge or wedges, or as with a wedge; to rive.
Wedge (v. t.) To force or drive as a wedge is driven.
Wedge (v. t.) To force by crowding and pushing as a wedge does; as, to wedge one's way.
Wedge (v. t.) To press closely; to fix, or make fast, in the manner of a wedge that is driven into something.
Wedge (v. t.) To fasten with a wedge, or with wedges; as, to wedge a scythe on the snath; to wedge a rail or a piece of timber in its place.
Wedge (v. t.) To cut, as clay, into wedgelike masses, and work by dashing together, in order to expel air bubbles, etc.
Wedgebill (n.) An Australian crested insessorial bird (Sphenostoma cristatum) having a wedge-shaped bill. Its color is dull brown, like the earth of the plains where it lives.
Wedge-formed (a.) Having the form of a wedge; cuneiform.
Wedge-shaped (a.) Having the shape of a wedge; cuneiform.
Wedge-shaped (a.) Broad and truncate at the summit, and tapering down to the base; as, a wedge-shaped leaf.
Wedge-shell (n.) Any one of numerous species of small marine bivalves belonging to Donax and allied genera in which the shell is wedge-shaped.
Wedge-tailed (a.) Having a tail which has the middle pair of feathers longest, the rest successively and decidedly shorter, and all more or less attenuate; -- said of certain birds. See Illust. of Wood hoopoe, under Wood.
Wedgewise (adv.) In the manner of a wedge.
Wedgwood ware () A kind of fine pottery, the most remarkable being what is called jasper, either white, or colored throughout the body, and capable of being molded into the most delicate forms, so that fine and minute bas-reliefs like cameos were made of it, fit even for being set as jewels.
Wedgy (a.) Like a wedge; wedge-shaped.
Wedlock (v. i.) The ceremony, or the state, of marriage; matrimony.
Wedlock (v. i.) A wife; a married woman.
Wedlock (v. t.) To marry; to unite in marriage; to wed.
Wednesday (a.) The fourth day of the week; the next day after Tuesday.
Wee (n.) A little; a bit, as of space, time, or distance.
Wee (a.) Very small; little.
Weech-elm (n.) The wych-elm.
Weed (n.) A garment; clothing; especially, an upper or outer garment.
Weed (n.) An article of dress worn in token of grief; a mourning garment or badge; as, he wore a weed on his hat; especially, in the plural, mourning garb, as of a woman; as, a widow's weeds.
Weed (n.) A sudden illness or relapse, often attended with fever, which attacks women in childbed.
Weed (n.) Underbrush; low shrubs.
Weed (n.) Any plant growing in cultivated ground to the injury of the crop or desired vegetation, or to the disfigurement of the place; an unsightly, useless, or injurious plant.
Weed (n.) Fig.: Something unprofitable or troublesome; anything useless.
Weed (n.) An animal unfit to breed from.
Weed (n.) Tobacco, or a cigar.
Weeded (imp. & p. p.) of Weed
Weeding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Weed
Weed (v. t.) To free from noxious plants; to clear of weeds; as, to weed corn or onions; to weed a garden.
Weed (v. t.) To take away, as noxious plants; to remove, as something hurtful; to extirpate.
Weed (v. t.) To free from anything hurtful or offensive.
Weed (v. t.) To reject as unfit for breeding purposes.
Weeder (n.) One who, or that which, weeds, or frees from anything noxious.
Weedery (n.) Weeds, collectively; also, a place full of weeds or for growing weeds.
Weeding () a. & n. from Weed, v.
Weeding-rhim (n.) A kind of implement used for tearing up weeds esp. on summer fallows.
Weedless (a.) Free from weeds or noxious matter.
Weedy (superl.) Of or pertaining to weeds; consisting of weeds.
Weedy (superl.) Abounding with weeds; as, weedy grounds; a weedy garden; weedy corn.
Weedy (superl.) Scraggy; ill-shaped; ungainly; -- said of colts or horses, and also of persons.
Weedy (a.) Dressed in weeds, or mourning garments.
Week (n.) A period of seven days, usually that reckoned from one Sabbath or Sunday to the next.
Weekly (a.) Of or pertaining to a week, or week days; as, weekly labor.
Weekly (a.) Coming, happening, or done once a week; hebdomadary; as, a weekly payment; a weekly gazette.
Weeklies (pl. ) of Weekly
Weekly (n.) A publication issued once in seven days, or appearing once a week.
Weekly (adv.) Once a week; by hebdomadal periods; as, each performs service weekly.
Weekwam (n.) See Wigwam.
Weel (a. & adv.) Well.
Weel (n.) A whirlpool.
Weel () Alt. of Weely
Weely () A kind of trap or snare for fish, made of twigs.
Ween (v. i.) To think; to imagine; to fancy.
Weep (n.) The lapwing; the wipe; -- so called from its cry.
Weep () imp. of Weep, for wept.
Wept (imp. & p. p.) of Weep
Weeping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Weep
Weep (v. i.) Formerly, to express sorrow, grief, or anguish, by outcry, or by other manifest signs; in modern use, to show grief or other passions by shedding tears; to shed tears; to cry.
Weep (v. i.) To lament; to complain.
Weep (v. i.) To flow in drops; to run in drops.
Weep (v. i.) To drop water, or the like; to drip; to be soaked.
Weep (v. i.) To hang the branches, as if in sorrow; to be pendent; to droop; -- said of a plant or its branches.
Weep (v. t.) To lament; to bewail; to bemoan.
Weep (v. t.) To shed, or pour forth, as tears; to shed drop by drop, as if tears; as, to weep tears of joy.
Weeper (n.) One who weeps; esp., one who sheds tears.
Weeper (n.) A white band or border worn on the sleeve as a badge of mourning.
Weeper (n.) The capuchin. See Capuchin, 3 (a).
Weepful (a.) Full of weeping or lamentation; grieving.
Weeping (n.) The act of one who weeps; lamentation with tears; shedding of tears.
Weeping (a.) Grieving; lamenting; shedding tears.
Weeping (a.) Discharging water, or other liquid, in drops or very slowly; surcharged with water.
Weeping (a.) Having slender, pendent branches; -- said of trees; as, weeping willow; a weeping ash.
Weeping (a.) Pertaining to lamentation, or those who weep.
Weepingly (adv.) In a weeping manner.
Weeping-ripe (a.) Ripe for weeping; ready to weep.
Weerish (a.) See Wearish.
Weesel (n.) See Weasel.
Weet (a. & n.) Wet.
Wot (imp.) of Weet
Weet (v. i.) To know; to wit.
Weet-bird (n.) The wryneck; -- so called from its cry.
Weetingly (adv.) Knowingly.
Weetless (a.) Unknowing; also, unknown; unmeaning.
Weet-weet (n.) The common European sandpiper.
Weet-weet (n.) The chaffinch.
Weever (n.) Any one of several species of edible marine fishes belonging to the genus Trachinus, of the family Trachinidae. They have a broad spinose head, with the eyes looking upward. The long dorsal fin is supported by numerous strong, sharp spines which cause painful wounds.
Weevil (n.) Any one of numerous species of snout beetles, or Rhynchophora, in which the head is elongated and usually curved downward. Many of the species are very injurious to cultivated plants. The larvae of some of the species live in nuts, fruit, and grain by eating out the interior, as the plum weevil, or curculio, the nut weevils, and the grain weevil (see under Plum, Nut, and Grain). The larvae of other species bore under the bark and into the pith of trees and various other plants, as the pine weevils (see under Pine). See also Pea weevil, Rice weevil, Seed weevil, under Pea, Rice, and Seed.
Weeviled (a.) Infested by weevils; as, weeviled grain.
Weevily (a.) Having weevils; weeviled.
Weezel (n.) See Weasel.
Weft () imp. & p. p. of Wave.
Weft (n.) A thing waved, waived, or cast away; a waif.
Weft (n.) The woof of cloth; the threads that cross the warp from selvage to selvage; the thread carried by the shuttle in weaving.
Weft (n.) A web; a thing woven.
Weftage (n.) Texture.
Wegotism (n.) Excessive use of the pronoun we; -- called also weism.
Wehrgeld (n.) Alt. of Wehrgelt
Wehrgelt (n.) See Weregild.
Wehrwolf (n.) See Werewolf.
Weigela (n.) Alt. of Weigelia
Weigelia (n.) A hardy garden shrub (Diervilla Japonica) belonging to the Honeysuckle family, with white or red flowers. It was introduced from China.
Weigh (n.) A corruption of Way, used only in the phrase under weigh.
Weighed (imp. & p. p.) of Weigh
Weighing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Weigh
Weigh (v. t.) To bear up; to raise; to lift into the air; to swing up; as, to weigh anchor.
Weigh (v. t.) To examine by the balance; to ascertain the weight of, that is, the force with which a thing tends to the center of the earth; to determine the heaviness, or quantity of matter of; as, to weigh sugar; to weigh gold.
Weigh (v. t.) To be equivalent to in weight; to counterbalance; to have the heaviness of.
Weigh (v. t.) To pay, allot, take, or give by weight.
Weigh (v. t.) To examine or test as if by the balance; to ponder in the mind; to consider or examine for the purpose of forming an opinion or coming to a conclusion; to estimate deliberately and maturely; to balance.
Weigh (v. t.) To consider as worthy of notice; to regard.
Weigh (v. i.) To have weight; to be heavy.
Weigh (v. i.) To be considered as important; to have weight in the intellectual balance.
Weigh (v. i.) To bear heavily; to press hard.
Weigh (v. i.) To judge; to estimate.
Weigh (n.) A certain quantity estimated by weight; an English measure of weight. See Wey.
Weighable (a.) Capable of being weighed.
Weighage (n.) A duty or toil paid for weighing merchandise.
Weighbeam (n.) A kind of large steelyard for weighing merchandise; -- also called weighmaster's beam.
Weighboard (n.) Clay intersecting a vein.
Weighbridge (n.) A weighing machine on which loaded carts may be weighed; platform scales.
Weigher (n.) One who weighs; specifically, an officer whose duty it is to weigh commodities.
Weigh-houses (pl. ) of Weigh-house
Weigh-house (n.) A building at or within which goods, and the like, are weighed.
Weighing () a. & n. from Weigh, v.
Weighlock (n.) A lock, as on a canal, in which boats are weighed and their tonnage is settled.
Weighmaster (n.) One whose business it is to weigh ore, hay, merchandise, etc.; one licensed as a public weigher.
Weight (v. t.) The quality of being heavy; that property of bodies by which they tend toward the center of the earth; the effect of gravitative force, especially when expressed in certain units or standards, as pounds, grams, etc.
Weight (v. t.) The quantity of heaviness; comparative tendency to the center of the earth; the quantity of matter as estimated by the balance, or expressed numerically with reference to some standard unit; as, a mass of stone having the weight of five hundred pounds.
Weight (v. t.) Hence, pressure; burden; as, the weight of care or business.
Weight (v. t.) Importance; power; influence; efficacy; consequence; moment; impressiveness; as, a consideration of vast weight.
Weight (v. t.) A scale, or graduated standard, of heaviness; a mode of estimating weight; as, avoirdupois weight; troy weight; apothecaries' weight.
Weight (v. t.) A ponderous mass; something heavy; as, a clock weight; a paper weight.
Weight (v. t.) A definite mass of iron, lead, brass, or other metal, to be used for ascertaining the weight of other bodies; as, an ounce weight.
Weight (v. t.) The resistance against which a machine acts, as opposed to the power which moves it.
Weighted (imp. & p. p.) of Weight
Weighting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Weight
Weight (v. t.) To load with a weight or weights; to load down; to make heavy; to attach weights to; as, to weight a horse or a jockey at a race; to weight a whip handle.
Weight (v. t.) To assign a weight to; to express by a number the probable accuracy of, as an observation. See Weight of observations, under Weight.
Weightily (adv.) In a weighty manner.
Weightiness (n.) The quality or state of being weighty; weight; force; importance; impressiveness.
Weightless (a.) Having no weight; imponderable; hence, light.
Weighty (superl.) Having weight; heavy; ponderous; as, a weighty body.
Weighty (superl.) Adapted to turn the balance in the mind, or to convince; important; forcible; serious; momentous.
Weighty (superl.) Rigorous; severe; afflictive.
Weir (n.) Alt. of Wear
Wear (n.) A dam in a river to stop and raise the water, for the purpose of conducting it to a mill, forming a fish pond, or the like.
Wear (n.) A fence of stakes, brushwood, or the like, set in a stream, tideway, or inlet of the sea, for taking fish.
Wear (n.) A long notch with a horizontal edge, as in the top of a vertical plate or plank, through which water flows, -- used in measuring the quantity of flowing water.
Weird (n.) Fate; destiny; one of the Fates, or Norns; also, a prediction.
Weird (n.) A spell or charm.
Weird (a.) Of or pertaining to fate; concerned with destiny.
Weird (a.) Of or pertaining to witchcraft; caused by, or suggesting, magical influence; supernatural; unearthly; wild; as, a weird appearance, look, sound, etc.
Weird (v. t.) To foretell the fate of; to predict; to destine to.
Weirdness (n.) The quality or state of being weird.
Weism (n.) Same as Wegotism.
Weive (v. t.) See Waive.
Weka (n.) A New Zealand rail (Ocydromus australis) which has wings so short as to be incapable of flight.
Wekau (n.) A small New Zealand owl (Sceloglaux albifacies). It has short wings and long legs, and lives chiefly on the ground.
Wekeen (n.) The meadow pipit.
Welaway (interj.) Alas!
Wel-begone (a.) Surrounded with happiness or prosperity.
Welch (a.) See Welsh.
Welcher (n.) See Welsher.
Welchman (n.) See Welshman.
Welcome (n.) Received with gladness; admitted willingly to the house, entertainment, or company; as, a welcome visitor.
Welcome (n.) Producing gladness; grateful; as, a welcome present; welcome news.
Welcome (n.) Free to have or enjoy gratuitously; as, you are welcome to the use of my library.
Welcome (n.) Salutation to a newcomer.
Welcome (n.) Kind reception of a guest or newcomer; as, we entered the house and found a ready welcome.
Welcomed (imp. & p. p.) of Welcome
Welcoming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Welcome
Welcome (v. t.) To salute with kindness, as a newcomer; to receive and entertain hospitably and cheerfully; as, to welcome a visitor; to welcome a new idea.
Welcomely (adv.) In a welcome manner.
Welcomeness (n.) The quality or state of being welcome; gratefulness; agreeableness; kind reception.
Welcomer (n.) One who welcomes; one who salutes, or receives kindly, a newcomer.
Weld (v. t.) To wield.
Weld (n.) An herb (Reseda luteola) related to mignonette, growing in Europe, and to some extent in America; dyer's broom; dyer's rocket; dyer's weed; wild woad. It is used by dyers to give a yellow color.
Weld (n.) Coloring matter or dye extracted from this plant.
Welded (imp. & p. p.) of Weld
Welding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Weld
Weld (v. t.) To press or beat into intimate and permanent union, as two pieces of iron when heated almost to fusion.
Weld (v. t.) Fig.: To unite closely or intimately.
Weld (n.) The state of being welded; the joint made by welding.
Weldable (a.) Capable of being welded.
Welder (n.) One who welds, or unites pieces of iron, etc., by welding.
Welder (n.) One who welds, or wields.
Welder (n.) A manager; an actual occupant.
Weldon's process () A process for the recovery or regeneration of manganese dioxide in the manufacture of chlorine, by means of milk of lime and the oxygen of the air; -- so called after the inventor.
Wele (n.) Prosperity; happiness; well-being; weal.
Weleful (a.) Producing prosperity or happiness; blessed.
Welew (v. t.) To welk, or wither.
Welfare (n.) Well-doing or well-being in any respect; the enjoyment of health and the common blessings of life; exemption from any evil or calamity; prosperity; happiness.
Welfaring (a.) Faring well; prosperous; thriving.
Welked (imp. & p. p.) of Welk
Welking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Welk
Welk (v. i.) To wither; to fade; also, to decay; to decline; to wane.
Welk (v. t.) To cause to wither; to wilt.
Welk (v. t.) To contract; to shorten.
Welk (v. t.) To soak; also, to beat severely.
Welk (n.) A pustule. See 2d Whelk.
Welk (n.) A whelk.
Welked (v. t.) See Whelked.
Welkin (n.) The visible regions of the air; the vault of heaven; the sky.
Well (v. i.) An issue of water from the earth; a spring; a fountain.
Well (v. i.) A pit or hole sunk into the earth to such a depth as to reach a supply of water, generally of a cylindrical form, and often walled with stone or bricks to prevent the earth from caving in.
Well (v. i.) A shaft made in the earth to obtain oil or brine.
Well (v. i.) Fig.: A source of supply; fountain; wellspring.
Well (v. i.) An inclosure in the middle of a vessel's hold, around the pumps, from the bottom to the lower deck, to preserve the pumps from damage and facilitate their inspection.
Well (v. i.) A compartment in the middle of the hold of a fishing vessel, made tight at the sides, but having holes perforated in the bottom to let in water for the preservation of fish alive while they are transported to market.
Well (v. i.) A vertical passage in the stern into which an auxiliary screw propeller may be drawn up out of water.
Well (v. i.) A depressed space in the after part of the deck; -- often called the cockpit.
Well (v. i.) A hole or excavation in the earth, in mining, from which run branches or galleries.
Well (v. i.) An opening through the floors of a building, as for a staircase or an elevator; a wellhole.
Well (v. i.) The lower part of a furnace, into which the metal falls.
Welled (imp. & p. p.) of Well
Welling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Well
Well (v. i.) To issue forth, as water from the earth; to flow; to spring.
Well (v. t.) To pour forth, as from a well.
Well (v. t.) In a good or proper manner; justly; rightly; not ill or wickedly.
Well (v. t.) Suitably to one's condition, to the occasion, or to a proposed end or use; suitably; abundantly; fully; adequately; thoroughly.
Well (v. t.) Fully or about; -- used with numbers.
Well (v. t.) In such manner as is desirable; so as one could wish; satisfactorily; favorably; advantageously; conveniently.
Well (v. t.) Considerably; not a little; far.
Well (a.) Good in condition or circumstances; desirable, either in a natural or moral sense; fortunate; convenient; advantageous; happy; as, it is well for the country that the crops did not fail; it is well that the mistake was discovered.
Well (a.) Being in health; sound in body; not ailing, diseased, or sick; healthy; as, a well man; the patient is perfectly well.
Well (a.) Being in favor; favored; fortunate.
Well (a.) Safe; as, a chip warranted well at a certain day and place.
Welladay (interj.) Alas! Welaway!
Wellat (n.) The king parrakeet See under King.
Well-being (n.) The state or condition of being well; welfare; happiness; prosperity; as, virtue is essential to the well-being of men or of society.
Well-born (a.) Born of a noble or respect able family; not of mean birth.
Well-bred (a.) Having good breeding; refined in manners; polite; cultivated.
Welldoer (n.) One who does well; one who does good to another; a benefactor.
Welldoing (n.) A doing well; right performance of duties. Also used adjectively.
Welldrained (imp. & p. p.) of Welldrain
Well-draining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Welldrain
Welldrain (v. t.) To drain, as land; by means of wells, or pits, which receive the water, and from which it is discharged by machinery.
Wellfare (n.) See Welfare.
Well-favored (a.) Handsome; wellformed; beautiful; pleasing to the eye.
Wellhead (n.) A source, spring, or fountain.
Wellhole (n.) The open space in a floor, to accommodate a staircase.
Wellhole (n.) The open space left beyond the ends of the steps of a staircase.
Wellhole (n.) A cavity which receives a counterbalancing weight in certain mechanical contrivances, and is adapted also for other purposes.
Well-informed (a.) Correctly informed; provided with information; well furnished with authentic knowledge; intelligent.
Wellingtonia (n.) A name given to the "big trees" (Sequoia gigantea) of California, and still used in England. See Sequoia.
Wellingtons (n. pl.) A kind of long boots for men.
Well-intentioned (a.) Having upright intentions or honorable purposes.
Well-known (a.) Fully known; generally known or acknowledged.
Well-liking (a.) Being in good condition.
Well-mannered (a.) Polite; well-bred; complaisant; courteous.
Well-meaner (n.) One whose intention is good.
Well-meaning (a.) Having a good intention.
Well-natured (a.) Good-natured; kind.
Well-nigh (adv.) Almost; nearly.
Well-plighted (a.) Being well folded.
Well-read (a.) Of extensive reading; deeply versed; -- often followed by in.
Well-seen (a.) Having seen much; hence, accomplished; experienced.
Well-set (a.) Properly or firmly set.
Well-set (a.) Well put together; having symmetry of parts.
Well-sped (a.) Having good success.
Well-spoken (a.) Speaking well; speaking with fitness or grace; speaking kindly.
Well-spoken (a.) Spoken with propriety; as, well-spoken words.
Wellspring (n.) A fountain; a spring; a source of continual supply.
Well-willer (n.) One who wishes well, or means kindly.
Well-wish (n.) A wish of happiness.
Wellwisher (n.) One who wishes another well; one who is benevolently or friendlily inclined.
We'll () Contraction for we will or we shall.
Wels (n.) The sheatfish; -- called also waller.
Welsh (a.) Of or pertaining to Wales, or its inhabitants.
Welsh (n.) The language of Wales, or of the Welsh people.
Welsh (n.) The natives or inhabitants of Wales.
Welsher (n.) One who cheats at a horse race; one who bets, without a chance of being able to pay; one who receives money to back certain horses and absconds with it.
Welshmen (pl. ) of Welshman
Welshman (n.) A native or inhabitant of Wales; one of the Welsh.
Welshman (n.) A squirrel fish.
Welshman (n.) The large-mouthed black bass. See Black bass.
Welsome (a.) Prosperous; well.
Welt (n.) That which, being sewed or otherwise fastened to an edge or border, serves to guard, strengthen, or adorn it
Welt (n.) A small cord covered with cloth and sewed on a seam or border to strengthen it; an edge of cloth folded on itself, usually over a cord, and sewed down.
Welt (n.) A hem, border, or fringe.
Welt (n.) In shoemaking, a narrow strip of leather around a shoe, between the upper leather and sole.
Welt (n.) In steam boilers and sheet-iron work, a strip riveted upon the edges of plates that form a butt joint.
Welt (n.) In carpentry, a strip of wood fastened over a flush seam or joint, or an angle, to strengthen it.
Welt (n.) In machine-made stockings, a strip, or flap, of which the heel is formed.
Welt (n.) A narrow border, as of an ordinary, but not extending around the ends.
Welted (imp. & p. p.) of Welt
Welting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Welt
Welt (v. t.) To furnish with a welt; to sew or fasten a welt on; as, to welt a boot or a shoe; to welt a sleeve.
Welt (v. t.) To wilt.
Welte () imp. of Weld, to wield.
Weltered (imp. & p. p.) of Welter
Weltering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Welter
Welter (v. i.) To roll, as the body of an animal; to tumble about, especially in anything foul or defiling; to wallow.
Welter (v. i.) To rise and fall, as waves; to tumble over, as billows.
Welter (v. i.) To wither; to wilt.
Welter (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, the most heavily weighted race in a meeting; as, a welter race; the welter stakes.
Welter (n.) That in which any person or thing welters, or wallows; filth; mire; slough.
Welter (n.) A rising or falling, as of waves; as, the welter of the billows; the welter of a tempest.
Welwitschia (n.) An African plant (Welwitschia mirabilis) belonging to the order Gnetaceae. It consists of a short, woody, topshaped stem, and never more than two leaves, which are the cotyledons enormously developed, and at length split into diverging segments.
Wem (n.) The abdomen; the uterus; the womb.
Wem (n.) Spot; blemish; harm; hurt.
Wem (v. t.) To stain; to blemish; to harm; to corrupt.
Wemless (a.) Having no wem, or blemish; spotless.
Wem (n.) An indolent, encysted tumor of the skin; especially, a sebaceous cyst.
Wench (n.) A young woman; a girl; a maiden.
Wench (n.) A low, vicious young woman; a drab; a strumpet.
Wench (n.) A colored woman; a negress.
Wenched (imp. & p. p.) of Wench
Wenching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wench
Wench (v. i.) To frequent the company of wenches, or women of ill fame.
Wencher (n.) One who wenches; a lewd man.
Wenchless (a.) Being without a wench.
Wend () p. p. of Wene.
Wended (imp. & p. p.) of Wend
Went () of Wend
Wending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wend
Wend (v. i.) To go; to pass; to betake one's self.
Wend (v. i.) To turn round.
Wend (v. t.) To direct; to betake; -- used chiefly in the phrase to wend one's way. Also used reflexively.
Wend (n.) A large extent of ground; a perambulation; a circuit.
Wende () imp. of Wene.
Wendic (a.) Alt. of Wendish
Wendish (a.) Of or pertaining the Wends, or their language.
Wendic (n.) The language of the Wends.
Wends (n. pl.) A Slavic tribe which once occupied the northern and eastern parts of Germany, of which a small remnant exists.
Wene (v. i.) To ween.
Wenlock group () The middle subdivision of the Upper Silurian in Great Britain; -- so named from the typical locality in Shropshire.
Wennel (n.) See Weanel.
Wennish (a.) Alt. of Wenny
Wenny (a.) Having the nature of a wen; resembling a wen; as, a wennish excrescence.
Wenona (n.) A sand snake (Charina plumbea) of Western North America, of the family Erycidae.
Went () imp. & p. p. of Wend; -- now obsolete except as the imperfect of go, with which it has no etymological connection. See Go.
Went (n.) Course; way; path; journey; direction.
Wentletrap (n.) Any one of numerous species of elegant, usually white, marine shells of the genus Scalaria, especially Scalaria pretiosa, which was formerly highly valued; -- called also staircase shell. See Scalaria.
Wep () imp. of Weep.
Wepen (n.) Weapon.
Wept () imp. & p. p. of Weep.
Werche (v. t. & i.) To work.
Were (v. t. & i.) To wear. See 3d Wear.
Were (n.) A weir. See Weir.
Were (v. t.) To guard; to protect.
Were () The imperfect indicative plural, and imperfect subjunctive singular and plural, of the verb be. See Be.
Were (n.) A man.
Were (n.) A fine for slaying a man; the money value set upon a man's life; weregild.
Weregild (n.) The price of a man's head; a compensation paid of a man killed, partly to the king for the loss of a subject, partly to the lord of a vassal, and partly to the next of kin. It was paid by the murderer.
Werewolves (pl. ) of Werewolf
Werewolf (n.) A person transformed into a wolf in form and appetite, either temporarily or permanently, whether by supernatural influences, by witchcraft, or voluntarily; a lycanthrope. Belief in werewolves, formerly general, is not now extinct.
Werk (v.) Alt. of Werke
Werke (v.) See Work.
Wern (v. t.) To refuse.
Wernerian (a.) Of or pertaining to A. G. Werner, The German mineralogist and geologist, who classified minerals according to their external characters, and advocated the theory that the strata of the earth's crust were formed by depositions from water; designating, or according to, Werner's system.
Wernerite (n.) The common grayish or white variety of soapolite.
Weroole (n.) An Australian lorikeet (Ptilosclera versicolor) noted for the variety of its colors; -- called also varied lorikeet.
Werre (n.) War.
Werrey (v. t.) To warray.
Werst (n.) See Verst.
Wert () The second person singular, indicative and subjunctive moods, imperfect tense, of the verb be. It is formed from were, with the ending -t, after the analogy of wast. Now used only in solemn or poetic style.
Wert (n.) A wart.
Weryangle (n.) See Wariangle.
Wesand (n.) See Weasand.
Wesh (imp.) Washed.
Wesil (n.) See Weasand.
Wesleyan (a.) Of or pertaining to Wesley or Wesleyanism.
Wesleyan (n.) One who adopts the principles of Wesleyanism; a Methodist.
Wesleyanism (n.) The system of doctrines and church polity inculcated by John Wesley (b. 1703; d. 1791), the founder of the religious sect called Methodist; Methodism. See Methodist, n., 2.
West (n.) The point in the heavens where the sun is seen to set at the equinox; or, the corresponding point on the earth; that one of the four cardinal points of the compass which is in a direction at right angles to that of north and south, and on the left hand of a person facing north; the point directly opposite to east.
West (n.) A country, or region of country, which, with regard to some other country or region, is situated in the direction toward the west.
West (n.) The Westen hemisphere, or the New World so called, it having been discovered by sailing westward from Europe; the Occident.
West (n.) Formerly, that part of the United States west of the Alleghany mountains; now, commonly, the whole region west of the Mississippi river; esp., that part which is north of the Indian Territory, New Mexico, etc. Usually with the definite article.
West (a.) Lying toward the west; situated at the west, or in a western direction from the point of observation or reckoning; proceeding toward the west, or coming from the west; as, a west course is one toward the west; an east and west line; a west wind blows from the west.
West (adv.) Westward.
West (v. i.) To pass to the west; to set, as the sun.
West (v. i.) To turn or move toward the west; to veer from the north or south toward the west.
Westering (a.) Passing to the west.
Westerly (a.) Of or pertaining to the west; toward the west; coming from the west; western.
Westerly (adv.) Toward the west; westward.
Western (a.) Of or pertaining to the west; situated in the west, or in the region nearly in the direction of west; being in that quarter where the sun sets; as, the western shore of France; the western ocean.
Western (a.) Moving toward the west; as, a ship makes a western course; coming from the west; as, a western breeze.
Westerner (n.) A native or inhabitant of the west.
Westernmost (a.) Situated the farthest towards the west; most western.
West India () Alt. of West Indian
West Indian () Belonging or relating to the West Indies.
West Indian () A native of, or a dweller in, the West Indies.
Westing (n.) The distance, reckoned toward the west, between the two meridians passing through the extremities of a course, or portion of a ship's path; the departure of a course which lies to the west of north.
Westling (n.) A westerner.
Westminster Assembly () See under Assembly.
Westmost (a.) Lying farthest to the west; westernmost.
Westward (adv.) Alt. of Westwards
Westwards (adv.) Toward the west; as, to ride or sail westward.
Westward (a.) Lying toward the west.
Westward (n.) The western region or countries; the west.
Westwardly (adv.) In a westward direction.
Westy (a.) Dizzy; giddy.
Wet (superl.) Containing, or consisting of, water or other liquid; moist; soaked with a liquid; having water or other liquid upon the surface; as, wet land; a wet cloth; a wet table.
Wet (superl.) Very damp; rainy; as, wet weather; a wet season.
Wet (superl.) Employing, or done by means of, water or some other liquid; as, the wet extraction of copper, in distinction from dry extraction in which dry heat or fusion is employed.
Wet (superl.) Refreshed with liquor; drunk.
Wet (a.) Water or wetness; moisture or humidity in considerable degree.
Wet (a.) Rainy weather; foggy or misty weather.
Wet (a.) A dram; a drink.
Wet (imp. & p. p.) of Wet
Wetted () of Wet
Wetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wet
Wet (v. t.) To fill or moisten with water or other liquid; to sprinkle; to cause to have water or other fluid adherent to the surface; to dip or soak in a liquid; as, to wet a sponge; to wet the hands; to wet cloth.
Wetbird (n.) The chaffinch, whose cry is thought to foretell rain.
Wether (n.) A castrated ram.
Westness (n.) The quality or state of being wet; moisture; humidity; as, the wetness of land; the wetness of a cloth.
Westness (n.) A watery or moist state of the atmosphere; a state of being rainy, foggy, or misty; as, the wetness of weather or the season.
Wet nurse () A nurse who suckles a child, especially the child of another woman. Cf. Dry nurse.
Wet-shod (a.) Having the feet, or the shoes on the feet, wet.
Wettish (a.) Somewhat wet; moist; humid.
Wevil (n.) See Weevil.
Wex (v. t. & i.) To grow; to wax.
Wex (imp.) Waxed.
Wex (n.) Wax.
Wey (n.) Way; road; path.
Wey (v. t. & i.) To weigh.
Wey (n.) A certain measure of weight.
Weyle (v. t. & i.) To wail.
Weyleway (interj.) See Welaway.
Weyve (v. t.) To waive.
Wezand (n.) See Weasand.
Whaap (n.) The European curlew; -- called also awp, whaup, great whaup, and stock whaup.
Whaap (n.) The whimbrel; -- called also May whaup, little whaup, and tang whaup.
Whacked (imp. & p. p.) of Whack
Whacking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whack
Whack (v. t.) To strike; to beat; to give a heavy or resounding blow to; to thrash; to make with whacks.
Whack (v. i.) To strike anything with a smart blow.
Whack (n.) A smart resounding blow.
Whacker (n.) One who whacks.
Whacker (n.) Anything very large; specif., a great lie; a whapper.
Whacking (a.) Very large; whapping.
Whahoo (n.) An American tree, the winged elm. (Ulmus alata).
Whaled (imp. & p. p.) of Whala
Whaling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whala
Whala (v. t.) To lash with stripes; to wale; to thrash; to drub.
Whale (n.) Any aquatic mammal of the order Cetacea, especially any one of the large species, some of which become nearly one hundred feet long. Whales are hunted chiefly for their oil and baleen, or whalebone.
Whaleboat (n.) A long, narrow boat, sharp at both ends, used by whalemen.
Whalebone (n.) A firm, elastic substance resembling horn, taken from the upper jaw of the right whale; baleen. It is used as a stiffening in stays, fans, screens, and for various other purposes. See Baleen.
Whalemen (pl. ) of Whaleman
Whaleman (n.) A man employed in the whale fishery.
Whaler (n.) A vessel or person employed in the whale fishery.
Whaler (n.) One who whales, or beats; a big, strong fellow; hence, anything of great or unusual size.
Whaling (n.) The hunting of whales.
Whaling (a.) Pertaining to, or employed in, the pursuit of whales; as, a whaling voyage; a whaling vessel.
Whall (n.) A light color of the iris in horses; wall-eye.
Whally (a.) Having the iris of light color; -- said of horses.
Whame (n.) A breeze fly.
Whammel (v. t.) To turn over.
Whan (adv.) When.
Whang (n.) A leather thong.
Whang (v. t.) To beat.
Whanghee (n.) See Wanghee.
Whap (v. i.) Alt. of Whop
Whop (v. i.) To throw one's self quickly, or by an abrupt motion; to turn suddenly; as, she whapped down on the floor; the fish whapped over.
Whapped (imp. & p. p.) of Whop
Whapping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whop
Whap (v. t.) Alt. of Whop
Whop (v. t.) To beat or strike.
Whap (n.) Alt. of Whop
Whop (n.) A blow, or quick, smart stroke.
Whapper (n.) Alt. of Whopper
Whopper (n.) Something uncommonly large of the kind; something astonishing; -- applied especially to a bold lie.
Whapping (a.) Alt. of Whopping
Whopping (a.) Very large; monstrous; astonishing; as, a whapping story.
Wharfs (pl. ) of Wharf
Wharves (pl. ) of Wharf
Wharf (n.) A structure or platform of timber, masonry, iron, earth, or other material, built on the shore of a harbor, river, canal, or the like, and usually extending from the shore to deep water, so that vessels may lie close alongside to receive and discharge cargo, passengers, etc.; a quay; a pier.
Wharf (n.) The bank of a river, or the shore of the sea.
Wharfed (imp. & p. p.) of Wharf
Wharfing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wharf
Wharf (v. t.) To guard or secure by a firm wall of timber or stone constructed like a wharf; to furnish with a wharf or wharfs.
Wharf (v. t.) To place upon a wharf; to bring to a wharf.
Wharfage (n.) The fee or duty paid for the privilege of using a wharf for loading or unloading goods; pierage, collectively; quayage.
Wharfage (n.) A wharf or wharfs, collectively; wharfing.
Wharfing (n.) Wharfs, collectively.
Wharfing (n.) A mode of facing sea walls and embankments with planks driven as piles and secured by ties.
Wharfinger (n.) A man who owns, or has the care of, a wharf.
Wharl (n.) Alt. of Wharling
Wharling (n.) A guttural pronunciation of the letter r; a burr. See Burr, n., 6.
Wharp (n.) A kind of fine sand from the banks of the Trent, used as a polishing powder.
What (pron., a., & adv.) As an interrogative pronoun, used in asking questions regarding either persons or things; as, what is this? what did you say? what poem is this? what child is lost?
What (pron., a., & adv.) As an exclamatory word: -- (a) Used absolutely or independently; -- often with a question following.
What (pron., a., & adv.) Used adjectively, meaning how remarkable, or how great; as, what folly! what eloquence! what courage!
What (pron., a., & adv.) Sometimes prefixed to adjectives in an adverbial sense, as nearly equivalent to how; as, what happy boys!
What (pron., a., & adv.) As a relative pronoun
What (pron., a., & adv.) Used substantively with the antecedent suppressed, equivalent to that which, or those [persons] who, or those [things] which; -- called a compound relative.
What (pron., a., & adv.) Used adjectively, equivalent to the . . . which; the sort or kind of . . . which; rarely, the . . . on, or at, which.
What (pron., a., & adv.) Used adverbially in a sense corresponding to the adjectival use; as, he picked what good fruit he saw.
What (pron., a., & adv.) Whatever; whatsoever; what thing soever; -- used indefinitely.
What (pron., a., & adv.) Used adverbially, in part; partly; somewhat; -- with a following preposition, especially, with, and commonly with repetition.
What (n.) Something; thing; stuff.
What (interrog. adv.) Why? For what purpose? On what account?
Whate'er (pron.) A contraction of what-ever; -- used in poetry.
Whatever (pron.) Anything soever which; the thing or things of any kind; being this or that; of one nature or another; one thing or another; anything that may be; all that; the whole that; all particulars that; -- used both substantively and adjectively.
Whatnot (n.) A kind of stand, or piece of furniture, having shelves for books, ornaments, etc.; an etagere.
Whatso (indef. pron.) Whatsoever; whosoever; whatever; anything that.
Whatsoe'er (pron.) A contraction of whatsoever; -- used in poetry.
Whatsoever (pron. & a.) Whatever.
Whaul (n.) Same as Whall.
Whaup (n.) See Whaap.
Wheal (n.) A pustule; a whelk.
Wheal (n.) A more or less elongated mark raised by a stroke; also, a similar mark made by any cause; a weal; a wale.
Wheal (n.) Specifically (Med.), a flat, burning or itching eminence on the skin, such as is produced by a mosquito bite, or in urticaria.
Wheal (n.) A mine.
Whealworm (n.) The harvest mite; -- so called from the wheals, caused by its bite.
Wheat (n.) A cereal grass (Triticum vulgare) and its grain, which furnishes a white flour for bread, and, next to rice, is the grain most largely used by the human race.
Wheatbird (n.) A bird that feeds on wheat, especially the chaffinch.
Wheatear (n.) A small European singing bird (Saxicola /nanthe). The male is white beneath, bluish gray above, with black wings and a black stripe through each eye. The tail is black at the tip and in the middle, but white at the base and on each side. Called also checkbird, chickell, dykehopper, fallow chat, fallow finch, stonechat, and whitetail.
Wheaten (a.) Made of wheat; as, wheaten bread.
Wheatsel bird () The male of the chaffinch.
Wheatstone's bridge () See under Bridge.
Wheatworm (n.) A small nematode worm (Anguillula tritici) which attacks the grains of wheat in the ear. It is found in wheat affected with smut, each of the diseased grains containing a large number of the minute young of the worm.
Wheder (pron. & conj.) Whether.
Wheedled (imp. & p. p.) of Wheedle
Wheedling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wheedle
Wheedle (v. t.) To entice by soft words; to cajole; to flatter; to coax.
Wheedle (v. t.) To grain, or get away, by flattery.
Wheedle (v. i.) To flatter; to coax; to cajole.
Wheel (n.) A circular frame turning about an axis; a rotating disk, whether solid, or a frame composed of an outer rim, spokes or radii, and a central hub or nave, in which is inserted the axle, -- used for supporting and conveying vehicles, in machinery, and for various purposes; as, the wheel of a wagon, of a locomotive, of a mill, of a watch, etc.
Wheel (n.) Any instrument having the form of, or chiefly consisting of, a wheel.
Wheel (n.) A spinning wheel. See under Spinning.
Wheel (n.) An instrument of torture formerly used.
Wheel (n.) A circular frame having handles on the periphery, and an axle which is so connected with the tiller as to form a means of controlling the rudder for the purpose of steering.
Wheel (n.) A potter's wheel. See under Potter.
Wheel (n.) A firework which, while burning, is caused to revolve on an axis by the reaction of the escaping gases.
Wheel (n.) The burden or refrain of a song.
Wheel (n.) A bicycle or a tricycle; a velocipede.
Wheel (n.) A rolling or revolving body; anything of a circular form; a disk; an orb.
Wheel (n.) A turn revolution; rotation; compass.
Wheeled (imp. & p. p.) of Wheel
Wheeling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wheel
Wheel (v. t.) To convey on wheels, or in a wheeled vehicle; as, to wheel a load of hay or wood.
Wheel (v. t.) To put into a rotatory motion; to cause to turn or revolve; to cause to gyrate; to make or perform in a circle.
Wheel (v. i.) To turn on an axis, or as on an axis; to revolve; to more about; to rotate; to gyrate.
Wheel (v. i.) To change direction, as if revolving upon an axis or pivot; to turn; as, the troops wheeled to the right.
Wheel (v. i.) To go round in a circuit; to fetch a compass.
Wheel (v. i.) To roll forward.
Wheelband (n.) The tire of a wheel.
Wheelbarrow (n.) A light vehicle for conveying small loads. It has two handles and one wheel, and is rolled by a single person.
Wheelbird (n.) The European goatsucker.
Wheeled (a.) Having wheels; -- used chiefly in composition; as, a four-wheeled carriage.
Wheeler (n.) One who wheels, or turns.
Wheeler (n.) A maker of wheels; a wheelwright.
Wheeler (n.) A wheel horse. See under Wheel.
Wheeler (n.) A steam vessel propelled by a paddle wheel or by paddle wheels; -- used chiefly in the terms side-wheeler and stern-wheeler.
Wheeler (n.) A worker on sewed muslin.
Wheeler (n.) The European goatsucker.
Wheelhouse (n.) A small house on or above a vessel's deck, containing the steering wheel.
Wheelhouse (n.) A paddle box. See under Paddle.
Wheeling (n.) The act of conveying anything, or traveling, on wheels, or in a wheeled vehicle.
Wheeling (n.) The act or practice of using a cycle; cycling.
Wheeling (n.) Condition of a road or roads, which admits of passing on wheels; as, it is good wheeling, or bad wheeling.
Wheeling (n.) A turning, or circular movement.
Wheelmen (pl. ) of Wheelman
Wheelman (n.) One who rides a bicycle or tricycle; a cycler, or cyclist.
Wheel-shaped (a.) Shaped like a wheel.
Wheel-shaped (a.) Expanding into a flat, circular border at top, with scarcely any tube; as, a wheel-shaped corolla.
Wheelswarf (n.) See Swarf.
Wheelwork (n.) A combination of wheels, and their connection, in a machine or mechanism.
Wheel-worn (a.) Worn by the action of wheels; as, a wheel-worn road.
Wheelwright (n.) A man whose occupation is to make or repair wheels and wheeled vehicles, as carts, wagons, and the like.
Wheely (a.) Circular; suitable to rotation.
Wheen (n.) A quantity; a goodly number.
Wheezed (imp. & p. p.) of Wheeze
Wheezing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wheeze
Wheeze (v. i.) To breathe hard, and with an audible piping or whistling sound, as persons affected with asthma.
Wheeze (n.) A piping or whistling sound caused by difficult respiration.
Wheeze (n.) An ordinary whisper exaggerated so as to produce the hoarse sound known as the "stage whisper." It is a forcible whisper with some admixture of tone.
Wheezy (a.) Breathing with difficulty and with a wheeze; wheezing. Used also figuratively.
Wheft (n.) See Waft, n., 4.
Whelk (n.) Any one numerous species of large marine gastropods belonging to Buccinum and allied genera; especially, Buccinum undatum, common on the coasts both of Europe and North America, and much used as food in Europe.
Whelk (n.) A papule; a pustule; acne.
Whelk (n.) A stripe or mark; a ridge; a wale.
Whelked (a.) Having whelks; whelky; as, whelked horns.
Whelky (a.) Having whelks, ridges, or protuberances; hence, streaked; striated.
Whelky (a.) Shelly.
Whelmed (imp. & p. p.) of Whelm
Whelming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whelm
Whelm (v. t.) To cover with water or other fluid; to cover by immersion in something that envelops on all sides; to overwhelm; to ingulf.
Whelm (v. t.) Fig.: To cover completely, as if with water; to immerse; to overcome; as, to whelm one in sorrows.
Whelm (v. t.) To throw (something) over a thing so as to cover it.
Whelp (n.) One of the young of a dog or a beast of prey; a puppy; a cub; as, a lion's whelps.
Whelp (n.) A child; a youth; -- jocosely or in contempt.
Whelp (n.) One of the longitudinal ribs or ridges on the barrel of a capstan or a windless; -- usually in the plural; as, the whelps of a windlass.
Whelp (n.) One of the teeth of a sprocket wheel.
Whelped (imp. & p. p.) of Whelp
Whelping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whelp
Whelp (v. i.) To bring forth young; -- said of the female of the dog and some beasts of prey.
Whelp (v. t.) To bring forth, as cubs or young; to give birth to.
When (adv.) At what time; -- used interrogatively.
When (adv.) At what time; at, during, or after the time that; at or just after, the moment that; -- used relatively.
When (adv.) While; whereas; although; -- used in the manner of a conjunction to introduce a dependent adverbial sentence or clause, having a causal, conditional, or adversative relation to the principal proposition; as, he chose to turn highwayman when he might have continued an honest man; he removed the tree when it was the best in the grounds.
When (adv.) Which time; then; -- used elliptically as a noun.
Whenas (conj.) Whereas; while
Whence (adv.) From what place; hence, from what or which source, origin, antecedent, premise, or the like; how; -- used interrogatively.
Whence (adv.) From what or which place, source, material, cause, etc.; the place, source, etc., from which; -- used relatively.
Whenceever (adv. & conj.) Whencesoever.
Whenceforth (adv.) From, or forth from, what or which place; whence.
Whencesoever (adv. & conj.) From what place soever; from what cause or source soever.
Whene'er (adv. & conj.) Whenever.
Whenever (adv. & conj.) At whatever time.
Whennes (adv.) Whence.
Whensoever (adv. & conj.) At what time soever; at whatever time; whenever.
Where (pron. & conj.) Whether.
Where (adv.) At or in what place; hence, in what situation, position, or circumstances; -- used interrogatively.
Where (adv.) At or in which place; at the place in which; hence, in the case or instance in which; -- used relatively.
Where (adv.) To what or which place; hence, to what goal, result, or issue; whither; -- used interrogatively and relatively; as, where are you going?
Where (conj.) Whereas.
Where (n.) Place; situation.
Whereabout (adv.) Alt. of Whereabouts
Whereabouts (adv.) About where; near what or which place; -- used interrogatively and relatively; as, whereabouts did you meet him?
Whereabouts (adv.) Concerning which; about which.
Whereabout (n.) Alt. of Whereabouts
Whereabouts (n.) The place where a person or thing is; as, they did not know his whereabouts.
Whereas (adv.) At which place; where.
Whereas (conj.) Considering that; it being the case that; since; -- used to introduce a preamble which is the basis of declarations, affirmations, commands, requests, or like, that follow.
Whereas (conj.) When in fact; while on the contrary; the case being in truth that; although; -- implying opposition to something that precedes; or implying recognition of facts, sometimes followed by a different statement, and sometimes by inferences or something consequent.
Whereat (adv.) At which; upon which; whereupon; -- used relatively.
Whereat (adv.) At what; -- used interrogatively; as, whereat are you offended?
Whereby (adv.) By which; -- used relatively.
Whereby (adv.) By what; how; -- used interrogatively.
Where'er (adv.) Wherever; -- a contracted and poetical form.
Wherefore (adv. & conj.) For which reason; so; -- used relatively.
Wherefore (adv. & conj.) For what reason; why; -- used interrogatively.
Wherefore (n.) the reason why.
Whereform (adv.) From which; from which or what place.
Wherein (adv.) In which; in which place, thing, time, respect, or the like; -- used relatively.
Wherein (adv.) In what; -- used interrogatively.
Whereinto (adv.) Into which; -- used relatively.
Whereinto (adv.) Into what; -- used interrogatively.
Whereness (n.) The quality or state of having a place; ubiety; situation; position.
Whereof (adv.) Of which; of whom; formerly, also, with which; -- used relatively.
Whereof (adv.) Of what; -- used interrogatively.
Whereon (adv.) On which; -- used relatively; as, the earth whereon we live.
Whereon (adv.) On what; -- used interrogatively; as, whereon do we stand?
Whereout (adv.) Out of which.
Whereso (adv.) Wheresoever.
Wheresoe'er (adv.) Wheresoever.
Wheresoever (adv.) In what place soever; in whatever place; wherever.
Wherethrough (adv.) Through which.
Whereto (adv.) To which; -- used relatively.
Whereto (adv.) To what; to what end; -- used interrogatively.
Whereunto (adv.) Same as Whereto.
Whereupon (adv.) Upon which; in consequence of which; after which.
Wherever (adv.) At or in whatever place; wheresoever.
Wherewith (adv.) With which; -- used relatively.
Wherewith (adv.) With what; -- used interrogatively.
Wherewith (n.) The necessary means or instrument.
Wherewithal (adv. & n.) Wherewith.
Whereret (v. t.) To hurry; to trouble; to tease.
Whereret (v. t.) To box (one) on the ear; to strike or box. (the ear); as, to wherret a child.
Wherret (n.) A box on the ear.
Wherries (pl. ) of Wherry
Wherry (n.) A passenger barge or lighter plying on rivers; also, a kind of light, half-decked vessel used in fishing.
Wherry (n.) A long, narrow, light boat, sharp at both ends, for fast rowing or sailing; esp., a racing boat rowed by one person with sculls.
Wherry (n.) A liquor made from the pulp of crab apples after the verjuice is expressed; -- sometimes called crab wherry.
Wherso (adv.) Wheresoever.
Whetted (imp. & p. p.) of Whet
Whetting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whet
Whet (v. t.) To rub or on with some substance, as a piece of stone, for the purpose of sharpening; to sharpen by attrition; as, to whet a knife.
Whet (v. t.) To make sharp, keen, or eager; to excite; to stimulate; as, to whet the appetite or the courage.
Whet (n.) The act of whetting.
Whet (n.) That which whets or sharpens; esp., an appetizer.
Whether (pron.) Which (of two); which one (of two); -- used interrogatively and relatively.
Whether (conj.) In case; if; -- used to introduce the first or two or more alternative clauses, the other or others being connected by or, or by or whether. When the second of two alternatives is the simple negative of the first it is sometimes only indicated by the particle not or no after the correlative, and sometimes it is omitted entirely as being distinctly implied in the whether of the first.
Whethering (n.) The retention of the afterbirth in cows.
Whetile (n.) The green woodpecker, or yaffle. See Yaffle.
Whetstone (n.) A piece of stone, natural or artificial, used for whetting, or sharpening, edge tools.
Whetter (n.) One who, or that which, whets, sharpens, or stimulates.
Whetter (n.) A tippler; one who drinks whets.
Whettlebones (n. pl.) The vertebrae of the back.
Whew (n. & interj.) A sound like a half-formed whistle, expressing astonishment, scorn, or dislike.
Whew (v. i.) To whistle with a shrill pipe, like a plover.
Whewellite (n.) Calcium oxalate, occurring in colorless or white monoclinic crystals.
Whewer (n.) The European widgeon.
Whey (n.) The serum, or watery part, of milk, separated from the more thick or coagulable part, esp. in the process of making cheese.
Wheyey (a.) Of the nature of, or containing, whey; resembling whey; wheyish.
Wheyface (n.) One who is pale, as from fear.
Whey-faced (a.) Having a pale or white face, as from fright.
Wheyish (a.) Somewhat like whey; wheyey.
Which (a.) Of what sort or kind; what; what a; who.
Which (a.) A interrogative pronoun, used both substantively and adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer to, an individual person or thing among several of a class; as, which man is it? which woman was it? which is the house? he asked which route he should take; which is best, to live or to die? See the Note under What, pron., 1.
Which (pron.) A relative pronoun, used esp. in referring to an antecedent noun or clause, but sometimes with reference to what is specified or implied in a sentence, or to a following noun or clause (generally involving a reference, however, to something which has preceded). It is used in all numbers and genders, and was formerly used of persons.
Which (pron.) A compound relative or indefinite pronoun, standing for any one which, whichever, that which, those which, the . . . which, and the like; as, take which you will.
Whichever (pron. & a.) Alt. of Whichsoever
Whichsoever (pron. & a.) Whether one or another; whether one or the other; which; that one (of two or more) which; as, whichever road you take, it will lead you to town.
Whidah bird () Any one of several species of finchlike birds belonging to the genus Vidua, native of Asia and Africa. In the breeding season the male has very long, drooping tail feathers. Called also vida finch, whidah finch, whydah bird, whydah finch, widow bird, and widow finch.
Whider (adv.) Whither.
Whiff (n.) A sudden expulsion of air from the mouth; a quick puff or slight gust, as of air or smoke.
Whiff (n.) A glimpse; a hasty view.
Whiff (n.) The marysole, or sail fluke.
Whiffed (imp. & p. p.) of Whiff
Whiffing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whiff
Whiff (v. t.) To throw out in whiffs; to consume in whiffs; to puff.
Whiff (v. t.) To carry or convey by a whiff, or as by a whiff; to puff or blow away.
Whiff (v. i.) To emit whiffs, as of smoke; to puff.
Whiffet (n.) A little whiff or puff.
Whiffing (n.) The act of one who, or that which, whiffs.
Whiffing (n.) A mode of fishing with a hand line for pollack, mackerel, and the like.
Whiffled (imp. & p. p.) of Whiffle
Whiffling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whiffle
Whiffle (v. i.) To waver, or shake, as if moved by gusts of wind; to shift, turn, or veer about.
Whiffle (v. i.) To change from one opinion or course to another; to use evasions; to prevaricate; to be fickle.
Whiffle (v. t.) To disperse with, or as with, a whiff, or puff; to scatter.
Whiffle (v. t.) To wave or shake quickly; to cause to whiffle.
Whiffle (n.) A fife or small flute.
Whiffler (n.) One who whiffles, or frequently changes his opinion or course; one who uses shifts and evasions in argument; hence, a trifler.
Whiffler (n.) One who plays on a whiffle; a fifer or piper.
Whiffler (n.) An officer who went before procession to clear the way by blowing a horn, or otherwise; hence, any person who marched at the head of a procession; a harbinger.
Whiffler (n.) The golden-eye.
Whiffletree (n.) Same as Whippletree.
Whig (n.) Acidulated whey, sometimes mixed with buttermilk and sweet herbs, used as a cooling beverage.
Whig (n.) One of a political party which grew up in England in the seventeenth century, in the reigns of Charles I. and II., when great contests existed respecting the royal prerogatives and the rights of the people. Those who supported the king in his high claims were called Tories, and the advocates of popular rights, of parliamentary power over the crown, and of toleration to Dissenters, were, after 1679, called Whigs. The terms Liberal and Radical have now generally superseded Whig in English politics. See the note under Tory.
Whig (n.) A friend and supporter of the American Revolution; -- opposed to Tory, and Royalist.
Whig (n.) One of the political party in the United States from about 1829 to 1856, opposed in politics to the Democratic party.
Whig (a.) Of or pertaining to the Whigs.
Whiggamore (n.) A Whig; -- a cant term applied in contempt to Scotch Presbyterians.
Whiggarchy (n.) Government by Whigs.
Whiggery (n.) The principles or practices of the Whigs; Whiggism.
Whiggish (a.) Of or pertaining to Whigs; partaking of, or characterized by, the principles of Whigs.
Whiggishly (adv.) In a Whiggish manner.
Whiggism (n.) The principles of the Whigs.
Whigling (n.) A petty or inferior Whig; -- used in contempt.
While (n.) Space of time, or continued duration, esp. when short; a time; as, one while we thought him innocent.
While (n.) That which requires time; labor; pains.
Whiled (imp. & p. p.) of While
Whiling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of While
While (v. t.) To cause to pass away pleasantly or without irksomeness or disgust; to spend or pass; -- usually followed by away.
While (v. i.) To loiter.
While (conj.) During the time that; as long as; whilst; at the same time that; as, while I write, you sleep.
While (conj.) Hence, under which circumstances; in which case; though; whereas.
While (prep.) Until; till.
Whilere (adv.) A little while ago; recently; just now; erewhile.
Whiles (n.) Meanwhile; meantime.
Whiles (n.) sometimes; at times.
Whiles (conj.) During the time that; while.
Whilk (n.) A kind of mollusk, a whelk.
Whilk (n.) The scoter.
Whilk (pron.) Which.
Whilom (n.) Formerly; once; of old; erewhile; at times.
Whilst (adv.) While.
Whim (n.) The European widgeon.
Whim (n.) A sudden turn or start of the mind; a temporary eccentricity; a freak; a fancy; a capricious notion; a humor; a caprice.
Whim (n.) A large capstan or vertical drum turned by horse power or steam power, for raising ore or water, etc., from mines, or for other purposes; -- called also whim gin, and whimsey.
Whim (v. i.) To be subject to, or indulge in, whims; to be whimsical, giddy, or freakish.
Whimbrel (n.) Any one of several species of small curlews, especially the European species (Numenius phaeopus), called also Jack curlew, half curlew, stone curlew, and tang whaup. See Illustration in Appendix.
Whimling (n.) One given to whims; hence, a weak, childish person; a child.
Whimmy (a.) Full of whims; whimsical.
Whimpered (imp. & p. p.) of Whimper
Whimpering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whimper
Whimper (v. i.) To cry with a low, whining, broken voice; to whine; to complain; as, a child whimpers.
Whimper (v. t.) To utter in alow, whining tone.
Whimper (n.) A low, whining, broken cry; a low, whining sound, expressive of complaint or grief.
Whimperer (n.) One who whimpers.
Whimple (v. t.) See Wimple.
Whimple (v. i.) To whiffle; to veer.
Whimseys (pl. ) of Whimsy
Whimsies (pl. ) of Whimsy
Whimsey (n.) Alt. of Whimsy
Whimsy (n.) A whim; a freak; a capricious notion, a fanciful or odd conceit.
Whimsy (n.) A whim.
Whimsey (v. t.) To fill with whimseys, or whims; to make fantastic; to craze.
Whimsical (a.) Full of, or characterized by, whims; actuated by a whim; having peculiar notions; queer; strange; freakish.
Whimsical (a.) Odd or fantastic in appearance; quaintly devised; fantastic.
Whimsicality (n.) The quality or state of being whimsical; whimsicalness.
Whimsically (adv.) In a whimsical manner; freakishly.
Whimsicalness (n.) The quality or state of being whimsical; freakishness; whimsical disposition.
Whimsy (n.) A whimsey.
Whimwham (n.) A whimsical thing; an odd device; a trifle; a trinket; a gimcrack.
Whimwham (n.) A whim, or whimsey; a freak.
Whin (n.) Gorse; furze. See Furze.
Whin (n.) Woad-waxed.
Whin (n.) Same as Whinstone.
Whinberry (n.) The English bilberry; -- so called because it grows on moors among the whins, or furze.
Whinchat (n.) A small warbler (Pratincola rubetra) common in Europe; -- called also whinchacker, whincheck, whin-clocharet.
Whined (imp. & p. p.) of Whine
Whining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whine
Whine (v. i.) To utter a plaintive cry, as some animals; to moan with a childish noise; to complain, or to tell of sorrow, distress, or the like, in a plaintive, nasal tone; hence, to complain or to beg in a mean, unmanly way; to moan basely.
Whine (v. t.) To utter or express plaintively, or in a mean, unmanly way; as, to whine out an excuse.
Whine (n.) A plaintive tone; the nasal, childish tone of mean complaint; mean or affected complaint.
Whiner (n.) One who, or that which, whines.
Whinge (v. i.) To whine.
Whinger (n.) A kind of hanger or sword used as a knife at meals and as a weapon.
Whiningly (adv.) In a whining manner; in a tone of mean complaint.
Whinner (v. i.) To whinny.
Whinnied (imp. & p. p.) of Whinny
Whinnying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whinny
Whinny (v. i.) To utter the ordinary call or cry of a horse; to neigh.
Whinnies (pl. ) of Whinny
Whinny (n.) The ordinary cry or call of a horse; a neigh.
Whinny (a.) Abounding in whin, gorse, or furze.
Whinock (n.) The small pig of a litter.
Whinstone (n.) A provincial name given in England to basaltic rocks, and applied by miners to other kind of dark-colored unstratified rocks which resist the point of the pick. -- for example, to masses of chert. Whin-dikes, and whin-sills, are names sometimes given to veins or beds of basalt.
Whinyard (n.) A sword, or hanger.
Whinyard (n.) The shoveler.
Whinyard (n.) The poachard.
Whipped (imp. & p. p.) of Whip
Whipping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whip
Whip (v. t.) To strike with a lash, a cord, a rod, or anything slender and lithe; to lash; to beat; as, to whip a horse, or a carpet.
Whip (v. t.) To drive with lashes or strokes of a whip; to cause to rotate by lashing with a cord; as, to whip a top.
Whip (v. t.) To punish with a whip, scourge, or rod; to flog; to beat; as, to whip a vagrant; to whip one with thirty nine lashes; to whip a perverse boy.
Whip (v. t.) To apply that which hurts keenly to; to lash, as with sarcasm, abuse, or the like; to apply cutting language to.
Whip (v. t.) To thrash; to beat out, as grain, by striking; as, to whip wheat.
Whip (v. t.) To beat (eggs, cream, or the like) into a froth, as with a whisk, fork, or the like.
Whip (v. t.) To conquer; to defeat, as in a contest or game; to beat; to surpass.
Whip (v. t.) To overlay (a cord, rope, or the like) with other cords going round and round it; to overcast, as the edge of a seam; to wrap; -- often with about, around, or over.
Whip (v. t.) To sew lightly; specifically, to form (a fabric) into gathers by loosely overcasting the rolled edge and drawing up the thread; as, to whip a ruffle.
Whip (v. t.) To take or move by a sudden motion; to jerk; to snatch; -- with into, out, up, off, and the like.
Whip (v. t.) To hoist or purchase by means of a whip.
Whip (v. t.) To secure the end of (a rope, or the like) from untwisting by overcasting it with small stuff.
Whip (v. t.) To fish (a body of water) with a rod and artificial fly, the motion being that employed in using a whip.
Whip (v. i.) To move nimbly; to start or turn suddenly and do something; to whisk; as, he whipped around the corner.
Whip (v. t.) An instrument or driving horses or other animals, or for correction, consisting usually of a lash attached to a handle, or of a handle and lash so combined as to form a flexible rod.
Whip (v. t.) A coachman; a driver of a carriage; as, a good whip.
Whip (v. t.) One of the arms or frames of a windmill, on which the sails are spread.
Whip (v. t.) The length of the arm reckoned from the shaft.
Whip (v. t.) A small tackle with a single rope, used to hoist light bodies.
Whip (v. t.) The long pennant. See Pennant (a)
Whip (v. t.) A huntsman who whips in the hounds; whipper-in.
Whip (v. t.) A person (as a member of Parliament) appointed to enforce party discipline, and secure the attendance of the members of a Parliament party at any important session, especially when their votes are needed.
Whip (v. t.) A call made upon members of a Parliament party to be in their places at a given time, as when a vote is to be taken.
Whipcord (n.) A kind of hard-twisted or braided cord, sometimes used for making whiplashes.
Whipgrafted (imp. & p. p.) of Whipgraft
Whipgrafting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whipgraft
Whipgraft (v. t.) To graft by cutting the scion and stock in a certain manner. See Whip grafting, under Grafting.
Whiplash (n.) The lash of a whip, -- usually made of thongs of leather, or of cords, braided or twisted.
Whipparee (n.) A large sting ray (Dasybatis, / Trygon, Sayi) native of the Southern United States. It is destitute of large spines on the body and tail.
Whipparee (n.) A large sting ray (Rhinoptera bonasus, or R. quadriloba) of the Atlantic coast of the United States. Its snout appears to be four-lobed when viewed in front, whence it is also called cow-nosed ray.
Whipper (n.) One who whips; especially, an officer who inflicts the penalty of legal whipping.
Whipper (n.) One who raises coal or merchandise with a tackle from a chip's hold.
Whipper (n.) A kind of simple willow.
Whipperin (n.) A huntsman who keeps the hounds from wandering, and whips them in, if necessary, to the of chase.
Whipperin (n.) Hence, one who enforces the discipline of a party, and urges the attendance and support of the members on all necessary occasions.
Whippersnapper (n.) A diminutive, insignificant, or presumptuous person.
Whipping () a & n. from Whip, v.
Whippletree (n.) The pivoted or swinging bar to which the traces, or tugs, of a harness are fastened, and by which a carriage, a plow, or other implement or vehicle, is drawn; a whiffletree; a swingletree; a singletree. See Singletree.
Whippletree (n.) The cornel tree.
Whip-poor-will (n.) An American bird (Antrostomus vociferus) allied to the nighthawk and goatsucker; -- so called in imitation of the peculiar notes which it utters in the evening.
Whipsaw (n.) A saw for dividing timber lengthwise, usually set in a frame, and worked by two persons; also, a fret saw.
Whip-shaped (a.) Shaped like the lash of a whip; long, slender, round, and tapering; as, a whip-shaped root or stem.
Whipstaff (n.) A bar attached to the tiller, for convenience in steering.
Whipstalk (n.) A whipstock.
Whipster (n.) A nimble little fellow; a whippersnapper.
Whipstick (n.) Whip handle; whipstock.
Whipstitch (n.) A tailor; -- so called in contempt.
Whipstitch (n.) Anything hastily put or stitched together; hence, a hasty composition.
Whipstitch (n.) The act or process of whipstitching.
Whipstitch (v. t.) To rafter; to plow in ridges, as land.
Whipstock (n.) The rod or handle to which the lash of a whip is fastened.
Whipt (imp. & p. p.) Whipped.
Whip-tom-kelly (n.) A vireo (Vireo altiloquus) native of the West Indies and Florida; -- called also black-whiskered vireo.
Whipworm (n.) A nematode worm (Trichocephalus dispar) often found parasitic in the human intestine. Its body is thickened posteriorly, but is very long and threadlike anteriorly.
Whirred (imp. & p. p.) of Whir
Whirring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whir
Whir (v. i.) To whirl round, or revolve, with a whizzing noise; to fly or more quickly with a buzzing or whizzing sound; to whiz.
Whir (v. t.) To hurry a long with a whizzing sound.
Whir (n.) A buzzing or whizzing sound produced by rapid or whirling motion; as, the whir of a partridge; the whir of a spinning wheel.
Whirled (imp. & p. p.) of Whirl
Whirling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whirl
Whirl (v. t.) To turn round rapidly; to cause to rotate with velocity; to make to revolve.
Whirl (v. t.) To remove or carry quickly with, or as with, a revolving motion; to snatch; to harry.
Whirl (v. i.) To be turned round rapidly; to move round with velocity; to revolve or rotate with great speed; to gyrate.
Whirl (v. i.) To move hastily or swiftly.
Whirl (v. t.) A turning with rapidity or velocity; rapid rotation or circumvolution; quick gyration; rapid or confusing motion; as, the whirl of a top; the whirl of a wheel.
Whirl (v. t.) Anything that moves with a whirling motion.
Whirl (v. t.) A revolving hook used in twisting, as the hooked spindle of a rope machine, to which the threads to be twisted are attached.
Whirl (v. t.) A whorl. See Whorl.
Whirlabout (n.) Something that whirls or turns about in a rapid manner; a whirligig.
Whirlbat (n.) Anything moved with a whirl, as preparatory for a blow, or to augment the force of it; -- applied by poets to the cestus of ancient boxers.
Whirl-blast (n.) A whirling blast or wind.
Whirlbone (n.) The huckle bone.
Whirlbone (n.) The patella, or kneepan.
Whirler (n.) One who, or that which, whirls.
Whirlicote (n.) An open car or chariot.
Whirligig (n.) A child's toy, spun or whirled around like a wheel upon an axis, or like a top.
Whirligig (n.) Anything which whirls around, or in which persons or things are whirled about, as a frame with seats or wooden horses.
Whirligig (n.) A mediaeval instrument for punishing petty offenders, being a kind of wooden cage turning on a pivot, in which the offender was whirled round with great velocity.
Whirligig (n.) Any one of numerous species of beetles belonging to Gyrinus and allied genera. The body is firm, oval or boatlike in form, and usually dark colored with a bronzelike luster. These beetles live mostly on the surface of water, and move about with great celerity in a gyrating, or circular, manner, but they are also able to dive and swim rapidly. The larva is aquatic. Called also weaver, whirlwig, and whirlwig beetle.
Whirling () a. & n. from Whirl, v. t.
Whirlpit (n.) A whirlpool.
Whirlpool (n.) An eddy or vortex of water; a place in a body of water where the water moves round in a circle so as to produce a depression or cavity in the center, into which floating objects may be drawn; any body of water having a more or less circular motion caused by its flowing in an irregular channel, by the coming together of opposing currents, or the like.
Whirlpool (n.) A sea monster of the whale kind.
Whirlwig (n.) A whirligig.
Whirlwind (n.) A violent windstorm of limited extent, as the tornado, characterized by an inward spiral motion of the air with an upward current in the center; a vortex of air. It usually has a rapid progressive motion.
Whirlwind (n.) Fig.: A body of objects sweeping violently onward.
Whirry (v. i.) To whir.
Whirtle (n.) A perforated steel die through which wires or tubes are drawn to form them.
Whisk (n.) A game at cards; whist.
Whisk (n.) The act of whisking; a rapid, sweeping motion, as of something light; a sudden motion or quick puff.
Whisk (n.) A small bunch of grass, straw, twigs, hair, or the like, used for a brush; hence, a brush or small besom, as of broom corn.
Whisk (n.) A small culinary instrument made of wire, or the like, for whisking or beating eggs, cream, etc.
Whisk (n.) A kind of cape, forming part of a woman's dress.
Whisk (n.) An impertinent fellow.
Whisk (n.) A plane used by coopers for evening chines.
Whisked (imp. & p. p.) of Whisk
Whisking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whisk
Whisk (n.) To sweep, brush, or agitate, with a light, rapid motion; as, to whisk dust from a table; to whisk the white of eggs into a froth.
Whisk (n.) To move with a quick, sweeping motion.
Whisk (v. i.) To move nimbly at with velocity; to make a sudden agile movement.
Whisker (n.) One who, or that which, whisks, or moves with a quick, sweeping motion.
Whisker (n.) Formerly, the hair of the upper lip; a mustache; -- usually in the plural.
Whisker (n.) That part of the beard which grows upon the sides of the face, or upon the chin, or upon both; as, side whiskers; chin whiskers.
Whisker (n.) A hair of the beard.
Whisker (n.) One of the long, projecting hairs growing at the sides of the mouth of a cat, or other animal.
Whisker (n.) Iron rods extending on either side of the bowsprit, to spread, or guy out, the stays, etc.
Whiskered (a.) Formed into whiskers; furnished with whiskers; having or wearing whiskers.
Whiskered (a.) Having elongated hairs, feathers, or bristles on the cheeks.
Whiskerless (a.) Being without whiskers.
Whisket (n.) A basket; esp., a straw provender basket.
Whisket (n.) A small lathe for turning wooden pins.
Whiskey (n.) Same as Whisky, a liquor.
Whiskeys (pl. ) of Whisky
Whiskies (pl. ) of Whisky
Whiskey (n.) Alt. of Whisky
Whisky (n.) A light carriage built for rapid motion; -- called also tim-whiskey.
Whiskin (n.) A shallow drinking bowl.
Whisking (a.) Sweeping along lightly.
Whisking (a.) Large; great.
Whisky (n.) Alt. of Whiskey
Whiskey (n.) An intoxicating liquor distilled from grain, potatoes, etc., especially in Scotland, Ireland, and the United States. In the United States, whisky is generally distilled from maize, rye, or wheat, but in Scotland and Ireland it is often made from malted barley.
Whiskyfied (a.) Alt. of Whiskeyfied
Whiskeyfied (a.) Drunk with whisky; intoxicated.
Whisp (n.) See Wisp.
Whisp (n.) A flock of snipe.
Whispered (imp. & p. p.) of Whisper
Whispering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whisper
Whisper (v. i.) To speak softly, or under the breath, so as to be heard only by one near at hand; to utter words without sonant breath; to talk without that vibration in the larynx which gives sonorous, or vocal, sound. See Whisper, n.
Whisper (n.) To make a low, sibilant sound or noise.
Whisper (n.) To speak with suspicion, or timorous caution; to converse in whispers, as in secret plotting.
Whisper (v. t.) To utter in a low and nonvocal tone; to say under the breath; hence, to mention privately and confidentially, or in a whisper.
Whisper (v. t.) To address in a whisper, or low voice.
Whisper (v. t.) To prompt secretly or cautiously; to inform privately.
Whisper (n.) A low, soft, sibilant voice or utterance, which can be heard only by those near at hand; voice or utterance that employs only breath sound without tone, friction against the edges of the vocal cords and arytenoid cartilages taking the place of the vibration of the cords that produces tone; sometimes, in a limited sense, the sound produced by such friction as distinguished from breath sound made by friction against parts of the mouth. See Voice, n., 2, and Guide to Pronunciation, // 5, 153, 154.
Whisper (n.) A cautious or timorous speech.
Whisper (n.) Something communicated in secret or by whispering; a suggestion or insinuation.
Whisper (n.) A low, sibilant sound.
Whisperer (n.) One who whispers.
Whisperer (n.) A tattler; one who tells secrets; a conveyer of intelligence secretly; hence; a backbiter; one who slanders secretly.
Whispering () a. & n. from Whisper. v. t.
Whisperingly (adv.) In a whisper, or low voice; in a whispering manner; with whispers.
Whisperously (adv.) Whisperingly.
Whist (interj.) Be silent; be still; hush; silence.
Whist (n.) A certain game at cards; -- so called because it requires silence and close attention. It is played by four persons (those who sit opposite each other being partners) with a complete pack of fifty-two cards. Each player has thirteen cards, and when these are played out, he hand is finished, and the cards are again shuffled and distributed.
Whist (v. t.) To hush or silence.
Whist (v. i.) To be or become silent or still; to be hushed or mute.
Whist (a.) Not speaking; not making a noise; silent; mute; still; quiet.
Whistled (imp. & p. p.) of Whistle
Whistling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whistle
Whistle (v. i.) To make a kind of musical sound, or series of sounds, by forcing the breath through a small orifice formed by contracting the lips; also, to emit a similar sound, or series of notes, from the mouth or beak, as birds.
Whistle (v. i.) To make a shrill sound with a wind or steam instrument, somewhat like that made with the lips; to blow a sharp, shrill tone.
Whistle (v. i.) To sound shrill, or like a pipe; to make a sharp, shrill sound; as, a bullet whistles through the air.
Whistle (v. t.) To form, utter, or modulate by whistling; as, to whistle a tune or an air.
Whistle (v. t.) To send, signal, or call by a whistle.
Whistle (v. i.) A sharp, shrill, more or less musical sound, made by forcing the breath through a small orifice of the lips, or through or instrument which gives a similar sound; the sound used by a sportsman in calling his dogs; the shrill note of a bird; as, the sharp whistle of a boy, or of a boatswain's pipe; the blackbird's mellow whistle.
Whistle (v. i.) The shrill sound made by wind passing among trees or through crevices, or that made by bullet, or the like, passing rapidly through the air; the shrill noise (much used as a signal, etc.) made by steam or gas escaping through a small orifice, or impinging against the edge of a metallic bell or cup.
Whistle (v. i.) An instrument in which gas or steam forced into a cavity, or against a thin edge, produces a sound more or less like that made by one who whistles through the compressed lips; as, a child's whistle; a boatswain's whistle; a steam whistle (see Steam whistle, under Steam).
Whistle (v. i.) The mouth and throat; -- so called as being the organs of whistling.
Whistlefish (n.) A gossat, or rockling; -- called also whistler, three-bearded rockling, sea loach, and sorghe.
Whistler (n.) One who, or that which, whistles, or produces or a whistling sound.
Whistler (n.) The ring ousel.
Whistler (n.) The widgeon.
Whistler (n.) The golden-eye.
Whistler (n.) The golden plover and the gray plover.
Whistler (n.) The hoary, or northern, marmot (Arctomys pruinosus).
Whistler (n.) The whistlefish.
Whistlewing (n.) The American golden-eye.
Whistlewood (n.) The moosewood, or striped maple. See Maple.
Whistling () a. & n. from Whistle, v.
Whistlingly (adv.) In a whistling manner; shrilly.
Whistly (adv.) In a whist manner; silently.
Whit (n.) The smallest part or particle imaginable; a bit; a jot; an iota; -- generally used in an adverbial phrase in a negative sentence.
White (superl.) Reflecting to the eye all the rays of the spectrum combined; not tinted with any of the proper colors or their mixtures; having the color of pure snow; snowy; -- the opposite of black or dark; as, white paper; a white skin.
White (superl.) Destitute of color, as in the cheeks, or of the tinge of blood color; pale; pallid; as, white with fear.
White (superl.) Having the color of purity; free from spot or blemish, or from guilt or pollution; innocent; pure.
White (superl.) Gray, as from age; having silvery hair; hoary.
White (superl.) Characterized by freedom from that which disturbs, and the like; fortunate; happy; favorable.
White (superl.) Regarded with especial favor; favorite; darling.
White (n.) The color of pure snow; one of the natural colors of bodies, yet not strictly a color, but a composition of all colors; the opposite of black; whiteness. See the Note under Color, n., 1.
White (n.) Something having the color of snow; something white, or nearly so; as, the white of the eye.
White (n.) Specifically, the central part of the butt in archery, which was formerly painted white; the center of a mark at which a missile is shot.
White (n.) A person with a white skin; a member of the white, or Caucasian, races of men.
White (n.) A white pigment; as, Venice white.
White (n.) Any one of numerous species of butterflies belonging to Pieris, and allied genera in which the color is usually white. See Cabbage butterfly, under Cabbage.
Whited (imp. & p. p.) of White
Whiting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of White
White (v. t.) To make white; to whiten; to whitewash; to bleach.
Whiteback (n.) The canvasback.
Whitebait (n.) The young of several species of herrings, especially of the common herring, esteemed a great delicacy by epicures in England.
Whitebait (n.) A small translucent fish (Salanx Chinensis) abundant at certain seasons on the coasts of China and Japan, and used in the same manner as the European whitebait.
Whitebeam (n.) The common beam tree of England (Pyrus Aria); -- so called from the white, woolly under surface of the leaves.
Whitebeard (n.) An old man; a graybeard.
Whitebelly (n.) The American widgeon, or baldpate.
Whitebelly (n.) The prairie chicken.
Whitebill (n.) The American coot.
White-blaze (n.) See White-face.
Whiteblow (n.) Same as Whitlow grass, under Whitlow.
Whiteboy (n.) A favorite.
Whiteboy (a.) One of an association of poor Roman catholics which arose in Ireland about 1760, ostensibly to resist the collection of tithes, the members of which were so called from the white shirts they wore in their nocturnal raids.
Whiteboyism (n.) The conduct or principle of the Whiteboys.
Whitecap (n.) The European redstart; -- so called from its white forehead.
Whitecap (n.) The whitethroat; -- so called from its gray head.
Whitecap (n.) The European tree sparrow.
Whitecap (n.) A wave whose crest breaks into white foam, as when the wind is freshening.
Whitecoat (n.) The skin of a newborn seal; also, the seal itself.
White-ear (n.) The wheatear.
White-eye (n.) Any one of several species of small Old World singing of the genus Zosterops, as Zosterops palpebrosus of India, and Z. c/rulescens of Australia. The eyes are encircled by a ring of white feathers, whence the name. Called also bush creeper, and white-eyed tit.
White-face (n.) A white mark in the forehead of a horse, descending almost to the nose; -- called also white-blaze.
Whitefish (n.) Any one of several species of Coregonus, a genus of excellent food fishes allied to the salmons. They inhabit the lakes of the colder parts of North America, Asia, and Europe. The largest and most important American species (C. clupeiformis) is abundant in the Great Lakes, and in other lakes farther north. Called also lake whitefish, and Oswego bass.
Whitefish (n.) The menhaden.
Whitefish (n.) The beluga, or white whale.
Whiteflaw (n.) A whitlow.
White-foot (n.) A white mark on the foot of a horse, between the fetlock and the coffin.
White friar () A mendicant monk of the Carmelite order, so called from the white cloaks worn by the order. See Carmelite.
White-fronted (a.) Having a white front; as, the white-fronted lemur.
Whitehead (n.) The blue-winged snow goose.
Whitehead (n.) The surf scoter.
White-heart (n.) A somewhat heart-shaped cherry with a whitish skin.
White-hot (a.) White with heat; heated to whiteness, or incandescence.
White-limed (a.) Whitewashed or plastered with lime.
White-livered (a.) Having a pale look; feeble; hence, cowardly; pusillanimous; dastardly.
Whitely (a.) Like, or coming near to, white.
Whitened (imp. & p. p.) of Whiten
Whitening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whiten
Whiten (v. i.) To grow white; to turn or become white or whiter; as, the hair whitens with age; the sea whitens with foam; the trees in spring whiten with blossoms.
Whiten (v. t.) To make white; to bleach; to blanch; to whitewash; as, to whiten a wall; to whiten cloth.
Whitener (n.) One who, or that which, whitens; a bleacher; a blancher; a whitewasher.
Whiteness (n.) The quality or state of being white; white color, or freedom from darkness or obscurity on the surface.
Whiteness (n.) Want of a sanguineous tinge; paleness; as from terror, grief, etc.
Whiteness (n.) Freedom from stain or blemish; purity; cleanness.
Whiteness (n.) Nakedness.
Whiteness (n.) A flock of swans.
Whitening (n.) The act or process of making or becoming white.
Whitening (n.) That which is used to render white; whiting.
White-pot (n.) A kind of food made of milk or cream, eggs, sugar, bread, etc., baked in a pot.
Whiterump (n.) The American black-tailed godwit.
Whites (n. pl.) Leucorrh/a.
Whites (n. pl.) The finest flour made from white wheat.
Whites (n. pl.) Cloth or garments of a plain white color.
Whiteside (n.) The golden-eye.
Whitesmith (n.) One who works in tinned or galvanized iron, or white iron; a tinsmith.
Whitesmith (n.) A worker in iron who finishes or polishes the work, in distinction from one who forges it.
Whitester (n.) A bleacher of linen; a whitener; a whitster.
Whitetail (n.) The Virginia deer.
Whitetail (n.) The wheatear.
Whitethorn (n.) The hawthorn.
Whitethroat (n.) Any one of several species of Old World warblers, esp. the common European species (Sylvia cinerea), called also strawsmear, nettlebird, muff, and whitecap, the garden whitethroat, or golden warbler (S. hortensis), and the lesser whitethroat (S. curruca).
Whitetop (n.) Fiorin.
Whitewall (n.) The spotted flycatcher; -- so called from the white color of the under parts.
Whitewash (n.) Any wash or liquid composition for whitening something, as a wash for making the skin fair.
Whitewash (n.) A composition of line and water, or of whiting size, and water, or the like, used for whitening walls, ceilings, etc.; milk of lime.
Whitewashed (imp. & p. p.) of Whitewash
Whitewashing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whitewash
Whitewash (v. t.) To apply a white liquid composition to; to whiten with whitewash.
Whitewash (v. t.) To make white; to give a fair external appearance to; to clear from imputations or disgrace; hence, to clear (a bankrupt) from obligation to pay debts.
Whitewasher (n.) One who whitewashes.
White-water (n.) A dangerous disease of sheep.
Whiteweed (n.) A perennial composite herb (Chrysanthemum Leucanthemum) with conspicuous white rays and a yellow disk, a common weed in grass lands and pastures; -- called also oxeye daisy.
Whitewing (n.) The chaffinch; -- so called from the white bands on the wing.
Whitewing (n.) The velvet duck.
Whitewood (n.) The soft and easily-worked wood of the tulip tree (Liriodendron). It is much used in cabinetwork, carriage building, etc.
Whitewort (n.) Wild camomile.
Whitewort (n.) A kind of Solomon's seal (Polygonum officinale).
Whitflaw (n.) Whitlow.
Whither (adv.) To what place; -- used interrogatively; as, whither goest thou?
Whither (adv.) To what or which place; -- used relatively.
Whither (adv.) To what point, degree, end, conclusion, or design; whereunto; whereto; -- used in a sense not physical.
Whithersoever (adv.) To whatever place; to what place soever; wheresoever; as, I will go whithersoever you lead.
Whitherward (adv.) In what direction; toward what or which place.
Whitile (v.) The yaffle.
Whiting (n.) A common European food fish (Melangus vulgaris) of the Codfish family; -- called also fittin.
Whiting (n.) A North American fish (Merlucius vulgaris) allied to the preceding; -- called also silver hake.
Whiting (n.) Any one of several species of North American marine sciaenoid food fishes belonging to genus Menticirrhus, especially M. Americanus, found from Maryland to Brazil, and M. littoralis, common from Virginia to Texas; -- called also silver whiting, and surf whiting.
Whiting (n.) Chalk prepared in an impalpable powder by pulverizing and repeated washing, used as a pigment, as an ingredient in putty, for cleaning silver, etc.
Whiting-mop (n.) A young whiting.
Whiting-mop (n.) A fair lass.
Whitish (a.) Somewhat white; approaching white; white in a moderate degree.
Whitish (a.) Covered with an opaque white powder.
Whitishness (n.) The quality or state of being whitish or somewhat white.
Whitleather (n.) Leather dressed or tawed with alum, salt, etc., remarkable for its pliability and toughness; white leather.
Whitleather (n.) The paxwax. See Paxwax.
Whitling (n.) A young full trout during its second season.
Whitlow (a.) An inflammation of the fingers or toes, generally of the last phalanx, terminating usually in suppuration. The inflammation may occupy any seat between the skin and the bone, but is usually applied to a felon or inflammation of the periosteal structures of the bone.
Whitlow (a.) An inflammatory disease of the feet. It occurs round the hoof, where an acrid matter is collected.
Whitlow-wort (n.) Same as Whitlow grass, under Whitlow.
Whitmonday (n.) The day following Whitsunday; -- called also Whitsun Monday.
Whitneyite (n.) an arsenide of copper from Lake Superior.
Whitson (a.) See Whitsun.
Whitsour (n.) A sort of apple.
Whitster (n.) A whitener; a bleacher; a whitester.
Whitsun (a.) Of, pertaining to, or observed at, Whitsuntide; as, Whitsun week; Whitsun Tuesday; Whitsun pastorals.
Whitsunday (n.) The seventh Sunday, and the fiftieth day, after Easter; a festival of the church in commemoration of the descent of the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost; Pentecost; -- so called, it is said, because, in the primitive church, those who had been newly baptized appeared at church between Easter and Pentecost in white garments.
Whitsunday (n.) See the Note under Term, n., 12.
Whitsuntide (n.) The week commencing with Whitsunday, esp. the first three days -- Whitsunday, Whitsun Monday, and Whitsun Tuesday; the time of Pentecost.
Whitten tree () Either of two shrubs (Viburnum Lantana, and V. Opulus), so called on account of their whitish branches.
Whitterick (n.) The curlew.
Whittle (n.) A grayish, coarse double blanket worn by countrywomen, in the west of England, over the shoulders, like a cloak or shawl.
Whittle (n.) Same as Whittle shawl, below.
Whittle (n.) A knife; esp., a pocket, sheath, or clasp knife.
Whittled (imp. & p. p.) of Whittle
Whittling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whittle
Whittle (v. t.) To pare or cut off the surface of with a small knife; to cut or shape, as a piece of wood held in the hand, with a clasp knife or pocketknife.
Whittle (v. t.) To edge; to sharpen; to render eager or excited; esp., to excite with liquor; to inebriate.
Whittle (v. i.) To cut or shape a piece of wood with am small knife; to cut up a piece of wood with a knife.
Whittlings (n. pl.) Chips made by one who whittles; shavings cut from a stick with a knife.
Whittret (n.) A weasel.
Whittuesday (n.) The day following Whitmonday; -- called also Whitsun Tuesday.
Whitwall (n.) Same as Whetile.
Whitworth ball () A prejectile used in the Whitworth gun.
Whitworth gun () A form of rifled cannon and small arms invented by Sir Joseph Whitworth, of Manchester, England.
Whity-brown (a.) Of a color between white and brown.
Whizzed (imp. & p. p.) of Whiz
Whizzing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whiz
Whiz (v. i.) To make a humming or hissing sound, like an arrow or ball flying through the air; to fly or move swiftly with a sharp hissing or whistling sound.
Whiz (n.) A hissing and humming sound.
Whizzingly (adv.) With a whizzing sound.
Who (object.) Originally, an interrogative pronoun, later, a relative pronoun also; -- used always substantively, and either as singular or plural. See the Note under What, pron., 1. As interrogative pronouns, who and whom ask the question: What or which person or persons? Who and whom, as relative pronouns (in the sense of that), are properly used of persons (corresponding to which, as applied to things), but are sometimes, less properly and now rarely, used of animals, plants, etc. Who and whom, as compound relatives, are also used especially of persons, meaning the person that; the persons that; the one that; whosoever.
Who (pron.) One; any; one.
Whoa (interj.) Stop; stand; hold. See Ho, 2.
Whobub (n.) Hubbub.
Whoever (pron.) Whatever person; any person who; be or she who; any one who; as, he shall be punished, whoever he may be.
Whole (a.) Containing the total amount, number, etc.; comprising all the parts; free from deficiency; all; total; entire; as, the whole earth; the whole solar system; the whole army; the whole nation.
Whole (a.) Complete; entire; not defective or imperfect; not broken or fractured; unimpaired; uninjured; integral; as, a whole orange; the egg is whole; the vessel is whole.
Whole (a.) Possessing, or being in a state of, heath and soundness; healthy; sound; well.
Whole (n.) The entire thing; the entire assemblage of parts; totality; all of a thing, without defect or exception; a thing complete in itself.
Whole (n.) A regular combination of parts; a system.
Whole-hoofed (a.) Having an undivided hoof, as the horse.
Whole-length (a.) Representing the whole figure; -- said of a picture or statue.
Whole-length (n.) A portrait or statue representing the whole figure.
Wholeness (n.) The quality or state of being whole, entire, or sound; entireness; totality; completeness.
Wholesale (n.) Sale of goods by the piece or large quantity, as distinguished from retail.
Wholesale (a.) Pertaining to, or engaged in, trade by the piece or large quantity; selling to retailers or jobbers rather than to consumers; as, a wholesale merchant; the wholesale price.
Wholesale (a.) Extensive and indiscriminate; as, wholesale slaughter.
Wholesome (superl.) Tending to promote health; favoring health; salubrious; salutary.
Wholesome (superl.) Contributing to the health of the mind; favorable to morals, religion, or prosperity; conducive to good; salutary; sound; as, wholesome advice; wholesome doctrines; wholesome truths; wholesome laws.
Wholesome (superl.) Sound; healthy.
Whole-souled (a.) Thoroughly imbued with a right spirit; noble-minded; devoted.
Wholly (adv.) In a whole or complete manner; entirely; completely; perfectly.
Wholly (adv.) To the exclusion of other things; totally; fully.
Whom (pron.) The objective case of who. See Who.
Whomsoever (pron.) The objective of whosoever. See Whosoever.
Whoobub (n.) Hubbub.
Whoop (n.) The hoopoe.
Whooped (imp. & p. p.) of Whoop
Whooping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whoop
Whoop (v. i.) To utter a whoop, or loud cry, as eagerness, enthusiasm, or enjoyment; to cry out; to shout; to halloo; to utter a war whoop; to hoot, as an owl.
Whoop (v. i.) To cough or breathe with a sonorous inspiration, as in whooping cough.
Whoop (v. t.) To insult with shouts; to chase with derision.
Whoop (n.) A shout of pursuit or of war; a very of eagerness, enthusiasm, enjoyment, vengeance, terror, or the like; an halloo; a hoot, or cry, as of an owl.
Whoop (n.) A loud, shrill, prolonged sound or sonorous inspiration, as in whooping cough.
Whooper (n.) One who, or that which, whooops.
Whooping () a. & n. from Whoop, v. t.
Whoot (v. i.) To hoot.
Whop (v. t.) Same as Whap.
Whop (n.) Same as Whap.
Whopper (n.) One who, or that which, whops.
Whopper (n.) Same as Whapper.
Whore (n.) A woman who practices unlawful sexual commerce with men, especially one who prostitutes her body for hire; a prostitute; a harlot.
Whored (imp. & p. p.) of Whore
Whoring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Whore
Whore (n.) To have unlawful sexual intercourse; to practice lewdness.
Whore (n.) To worship false and impure gods.
Whore (v. t.) To corrupt by lewd intercourse; to make a whore of; to debauch.
Whoredom (n.) The practice of unlawful intercourse with the other sex; fornication; lewdness.
Whoredom (n.) The sin of worshiping idols; idolatry.
Wheremaster (n.) A man who practices lewdness; a lecher; a whoremonger.
Wheremaster (n.) One keeps or procures whores for others; a pimp; a procurer.
Whoremasterly (a.) Having the character of a whoremaster; lecherous; libidinous.
Whoremonger (n.) A whoremaster; a lecher; a man who frequents the society of whores.
Whoreson (n.) A bastard; colloquially, a low, scurvy fellow; -- used generally in contempt, or in coarse humor. Also used adjectively.
Whorish (a.) Resembling a whore in character or conduct; addicted to unlawful pleasures; incontinent; lewd; unchaste.
Whorl (n. & v.) A circle of two or more leaves, flowers, or other organs, about the same part or joint of a stem.
Whorl (n. & v.) A volution, or turn, of the spire of a univalve shell.
Whorl (n. & v.) The fly of a spindle.
Whorled (a.) Furnished with whorls; arranged in the form of a whorl or whorls; verticillate; as, whorled leaves.
Whorler (n.) A potter's wheel.
Whort (n.) The whortleberry, or bilberry. See Whortleberry (a).
Whortle (n.) The whortleberry, or bilberry.
Whortleberry (n.) In England, the fruit of Vaccinium Myrtillus; also, the plant itself. See Bilberry, 1.
Whortleberry (n.) The fruit of several shrubby plants of the genus Gaylussacia; also, any one of these plants. See Huckleberry.
Whose (pron.) The possessive case of who or which. See Who, and Which.
Whosesoever (pron.) The possessive of whosoever. See Whosoever.
Whoso (pron.) Whosoever.
Whosoever (pron.) Whatsoever person; any person whatever that; whoever.
Whot (a.) Hot.
Whur (v. i.) To make a rough, humming sound, like one who pronounces the letter r with too much force; to whir; to birr.
Whur (v. i.) To snarl or growl, as a dog.
Whur (n.) A humming or whirring sound, like that of a body moving through the air with velocity; a whir.
Whurry (v. t.) To whisk along quickly; to hurry.
Whurt (n.) See Whort.
Why (adv.) For what cause, reason, or purpose; on what account; wherefore; -- used interrogatively. See the Note under What, pron., 1.
Why (adv.) For which; on account of which; -- used relatively.
Why (adv.) The reason or cause for which; that on account of which; on what account; as, I know not why he left town so suddenly; -- used as a compound relative.
Why (n.) A young heifer.
Whydah bird () Alt. of Whydah finch
Whydah finch () The whidah bird.
Why-not (n.) A violent and peremptory procedure without any assigned reason; a sudden conclusive happening.
Wich (n.) A variant of 1st Wick.
Wichitas (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians native of the region between the Arkansas and Red rivers. They are related to the Pawnees. See Pawnees.
Wick (n.) Alt. of Wich
Wich (n.) A street; a village; a castle; a dwelling; a place of work, or exercise of authority; -- now obsolete except in composition; as, bailiwick, Warwick, Greenwick.
Wich (n.) A narrow port or passage in the rink or course, flanked by the stones of previous players.
Wick (n.) A bundle of fibers, or a loosely twisted or braided cord, tape, or tube, usually made of soft spun cotton threads, which by capillary attraction draws up a steady supply of the oil in lamps, the melted tallow or wax in candles, or other material used for illumination, in small successive portions, to be burned.
Wick (v. i.) To strike a stone in an oblique direction.
Wicke (a.) Wicked.
Wicked (a.) Having a wick; -- used chiefly in composition; as, a two-wicked lamp.
Wicked (a.) Evil in principle or practice; deviating from morality; contrary to the moral or divine law; addicted to vice or sin; sinful; immoral; profligate; -- said of persons and things; as, a wicked king; a wicked woman; a wicked deed; wicked designs.
Wicked (a.) Cursed; baneful; hurtful; bad; pernicious; dangerous.
Wicked (a.) Ludicrously or sportively mischievous; disposed to mischief; roguish.
Wickedly (adv.) In a wicked manner; in a manner, or with motives and designs, contrary to the divine law or the law of morality; viciously; corruptly; immorally.
Wickedness (n.) The quality or state of being wicked; departure from the rules of the divine or the moral law; evil disposition or practices; immorality; depravity; sinfulness.
Wickedness (n.) A wicked thing or act; crime; sin; iniquity.
Wicken tree () Same as Quicken tree.
Wicker (n.) A small pliant twig or osier; a rod for making basketwork and the like; a withe.
Wicker (n.) Wickerwork; a piece of wickerwork, esp. a basket.
Wicker (n.) Same as 1st Wike.
Wicker (a.) Made of, or covered with, twigs or osiers, or wickerwork.
Wickered (a.) Made of, secured by, or covered with, wickers or wickerwork.
Wickerwork (n.) A texture of osiers, twigs, or rods; articles made of such a texture.
Wicket (n.) A small gate or door, especially one forming part of, or placed near, a larger door or gate; a narrow opening or entrance cut in or beside a door or gate, or the door which is used to close such entrance or aperture. Piers Plowman.
Wicket (n.) A small gate by which the chamber of canal locks is emptied, or by which the amount of water passing to a water wheel is regulated.
Wicket (n.) A small framework at which the ball is bowled. It consists of three rods, or stumps, set vertically in the ground, with one or two short rods, called bails, lying horizontally across the top.
Wicket (n.) The ground on which the wickets are set.
Wicket (n.) A place of shelter made of the boughs of trees, -- used by lumbermen, etc.
Wicket (n.) The space between the pillars, in postand-stall working.
Wicking (n.) the material of which wicks are made; esp., a loosely braided or twisted cord or tape of cotton.
Wiclifite (n.) Alt. of Wickliffite
Wickliffite (n.) See Wyclifite.
Wicopy (n.) See Leatherwood.
Widdy (n.) A rope or halter made of flexible twigs, or withes, as of birch.
Wide (superl.) Having considerable distance or extent between the sides; spacious across; much extended in a direction at right angles to that of length; not narrow; broad; as, wide cloth; a wide table; a wide highway; a wide bed; a wide hall or entry.
Wide (superl.) Having a great extent every way; extended; spacious; broad; vast; extensive; as, a wide plain; the wide ocean; a wide difference.
Wide (superl.) Of large scope; comprehensive; liberal; broad; as, wide views; a wide understanding.
Wide (superl.) Of a certain measure between the sides; measuring in a direction at right angles to that of length; as, a table three feet wide.
Wide (superl.) Remote; distant; far.
Wide (superl.) Far from truth, from propriety, from necessity, or the like.
Wide (superl.) On one side or the other of the mark; too far side-wise from the mark, the wicket, the batsman, etc.
Wide (superl.) Made, as a vowel, with a less tense, and more open and relaxed, condition of the mouth organs; -- opposed to primary as used by Mr. Bell, and to narrow as used by Mr. Sweet. The effect, as explained by Mr. Bell, is due to the relaxation or tension of the pharynx; as explained by Mr. Sweet and others, it is due to the action of the tongue. The wide of / (/ve) is / (/ll); of a (ate) is / (/nd), etc. See Guide to Pronunciation, / 13-15.
Wide (adv.) To a distance; far; widely; to a great distance or extent; as, his fame was spread wide.
Wide (adv.) So as to leave or have a great space between the sides; so as to form a large opening.
Wide (adv.) So as to be or strike far from, or on one side of, an object or purpose; aside; astray.
Wide (n.) That which is wide; wide space; width; extent.
Wide (n.) That which goes wide, or to one side of the mark.
Wide-awake (a.) Fully awake; not drowsy or dull; hence, knowing; keen; alert.
Wide-awake (n.) A broad-brimmed, low-crowned felt hat.
Widegap (n.) The angler; -- called also widegab, and widegut.
Widely (adv.) In a wide manner; to a wide degree or extent; far; extensively; as, the gospel was widely disseminated by the apostles.
Widely (adv.) Very much; to a great degree or extent; as, to differ widely in opinion.
Widened (imp. & p. p.) of Widen
Widening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Widen
Widen (v. t.) To make wide or wider; to extend in breadth; to increase the width of; as, to widen a field; to widen a breach; to widen a stocking.
Widen (v. i.) To grow wide or wider; to enlarge; to spread; to extend.
Wideness (n.) The quality or state of being wide; breadth; width; great extent from side to side; as, the wideness of a room.
Wideness (n.) Large extent in all directions; broadness; greatness; as, the wideness of the sea or ocean.
Widespread (a.) Spread to a great distance; widely extended; extending far and wide; as, widespread wings; a widespread movement.
Widewhere (adv.) Widely; far and wide.
Widgeon (n.) Any one of several species of fresh-water ducks, especially those belonging to the subgenus Mareca, of the genus Anas. The common European widgeon (Anas penelope) and the American widgeon (A. Americana) are the most important species. The latter is called also baldhead, baldpate, baldface, baldcrown, smoking duck, wheat, duck, and whitebelly.
Widish (a.) Moderately wide.
Widmanstatten figures () Certain figures appearing on etched meteoric iron; -- so called after A. B. Widmanstatten, of Vienna, who first described them in 1808. See the Note and Illust. under Meteorite.
Widow (n.) A woman who has lost her husband by death, and has not married again; one living bereaved of a husband.
Widow (a.) Widowed.
Widowed (imp. & p. p.) of Widow
Widowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Widow
Widow (v. t.) To reduce to the condition of a widow; to bereave of a husband; -- rarely used except in the past participle.
Widow (v. t.) To deprive of one who is loved; to strip of anything beloved or highly esteemed; to make desolate or bare; to bereave.
Widow (v. t.) To endow with a widow's right.
Widow (v. t.) To become, or survive as, the widow of.
Widow bird () See Whidan bird.
Widower (n.) A man who has lost his wife by death, and has not married again.
Widowerhood (n.) The state of being a widower.
Widowhood (n.) The state of being a widow; the time during which a woman is widow; also, rarely, the state of being a widower.
Widowhood (n.) Estate settled on a widow.
Widow-hunter (n.) One who courts widows, seeking to marry one with a fortune.
Widowly (a.) Becoming or like a widow.
Widow-maker (n.) One who makes widows by destroying husbands.
Widow-wail (n.) A low, narrowleaved evergreen shrub (Cneorum tricoccon) found in Southern Europe.
Width (n.) The quality of being wide; extent from side to side; breadth; wideness; as, the width of cloth; the width of a door.
Widual (a.) Of or pertaining to a widow; vidual.
Widwe (n.) A widow.
Wielded (imp. & p. p.) of Wield
Wielding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wield
Wield (v. t.) To govern; to rule; to keep, or have in charge; also, to possess.
Wield (v. t.) To direct or regulate by influence or authority; to manage; to control; to sway.
Wield (v. t.) To use with full command or power, as a thing not too heavy for the holder; to manage; to handle; hence, to use or employ; as, to wield a sword; to wield the scepter.
Wieldable (a.) Capable of being wielded.
Wieldance (n.) The act or power of wielding.
Wielder (n.) One who wields or employs; a manager; a controller.
Wielding (n.) Power; authority; rule.
Wieldless (a.) Not to be wielded; unmanageable; unwieldy.
Wieldsome (a.) Admitting of being easily wielded or managed.
Wieldy (a.) Capable of being wielded; manageable; wieldable; -- opposed to unwieldy.
Wier (n.) Same as Weir.
Wierangle (n.) Same as Wariangle.
Wiery (a.) Wet; moist; marshy.
Wiery (a.) Wiry.
Wives (pl. ) of Wife
Wife (n.) A woman; an adult female; -- now used in literature only in certain compounds and phrases, as alewife, fishwife, goodwife, and the like.
Wife (n.) The lawful consort of a man; a woman who is united to a man in wedlock; a woman who has a husband; a married woman; -- correlative of husband.
Wifehood (n.) Womanhood.
Wifehood (n.) The state of being a wife; the character of a wife.
Wifeless (a.) Without a wife; unmarried.
Wifelike (a.) Of, pertaining to, or like, a wife or a woman.
Wifely (a.) Becoming or life; of or pertaining to a wife.
Wig (n.) A covering for the head, consisting of hair interwoven or united by a kind of network, either in imitation of the natural growth, or in abundant and flowing curls, worn to supply a deficiency of natural hair, or for ornament, or according to traditional usage, as a part of an official or professional dress, the latter especially in England by judges and barristers.
Wig (n.) An old seal; -- so called by fishermen.
Wigged (imp. & p. p.) of Wig
Wigging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wig
Wig (v. t.) To censure or rebuke; to hold up to reprobation; to scold.
Wigan (n.) A kind of canvaslike cotton fabric, used to stiffen and protect the lower part of trousers and of the skirts of women's dresses, etc.; -- so called from Wigan, the name of a town in Lancashire, England.
Wigeon (n.) A widgeon.
Wigg (n.) Alt. of Wig
Wig (n.) A kind of raised seedcake.
Wigged (a.) Having the head covered with a wig; wearing a wig.
Wiggery (n.) A wig or wigs; false hair.
Wiggery (n.) Any cover or screen, as red-tapism.
Wiggle (v. t.) To move to and fro with a quick, jerking motion; to bend rapidly, or with a wavering motion, from side to side; to wag; to squirm; to wriggle; as, the dog wiggles his tail; the tadpole wiggles in the water.
Wiggle (n.) Act of wiggling; a wriggle.
Wiggler (n.) The young, either larva or pupa, of the mosquito; -- called also wiggletail.
Wigher (v. i.) To neigh; to whinny.
Wight (n.) Weight.
Wight (n.) A whit; a bit; a jot.
Wight (n.) A supernatural being.
Wight (n.) A human being; a person, either male or female; -- now used chiefly in irony or burlesque, or in humorous language.
Wight (a.) Swift; nimble; agile; strong and active.
Wightly (adv.) Swiftly; nimbly; quickly.
Wigless (a.) Having or wearing no wig.
Wigwag (v. t.) To signal by means of a flag waved from side to side according to a code adopted for the purpose.
Wigwam (n.) An Indian cabin or hut, usually of a conical form, and made of a framework of poles covered with hides, bark, or mats; -- called also tepee.
Wike (n.) A temporary mark or boundary, as a bough of a tree set up in marking out or dividing anything, as tithes, swaths to be mowed in common ground, etc.; -- called also wicker.
Wike (n.) A home; a dwelling.
Wikke (a.) Wicked.
Wild (superl.) Living in a state of nature; inhabiting natural haunts, as the forest or open field; not familiar with, or not easily approached by, man; not tamed or domesticated; as, a wild boar; a wild ox; a wild cat.
Wild (superl.) Growing or produced without culture; growing or prepared without the aid and care of man; native; not cultivated; brought forth by unassisted nature or by animals not domesticated; as, wild parsnip, wild camomile, wild strawberry, wild honey.
Wild (superl.) Desert; not inhabited or cultivated; as, wild land.
Wild (superl.) Savage; uncivilized; not refined by culture; ferocious; rude; as, wild natives of Africa or America.
Wild (superl.) Not submitted to restraint, training, or regulation; turbulent; tempestuous; violent; ungoverned; licentious; inordinate; disorderly; irregular; fanciful; imaginary; visionary; crazy.
Wild (superl.) Exposed to the wind and sea; unsheltered; as, a wild roadstead.
Wild (superl.) Indicating strong emotion, intense excitement, or /ewilderment; as, a wild look.
Wild (superl.) Hard to steer; -- said of a vessel.
Wild (n.) An uninhabited and uncultivated tract or region; a forest or desert; a wilderness; a waste; as, the wilds of America; the wilds of Africa.
Wild (adv.) Wildly; as, to talk wild.
Wild-cat (a.) Unsound; worthless; irresponsible; unsafe; -- said to have been originally applied to the notes of an insolvent bank in Michigan upon which there was the figure of a panther.
Wild-cat (a.) Running without control; running along the line without a train; as, a wild-cat locomotive.
Wildebeest (n.) The gnu.
Wilded (a.) Become wild.
Wildered (imp. & p. p.) of Wilder
Wildering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wilder
Wilder (a.) To bewilder; to perplex.
Wildering (n.) A plant growing in a state of nature; especially, one which has run wild, or escaped from cultivation.
Wilderment (n.) The state of being bewildered; confusion; bewilderment.
Wilderness (v. t.) A tract of land, or a region, uncultivated and uninhabited by human beings, whether a forest or a wide, barren plain; a wild; a waste; a desert; a pathless waste of any kind.
Wilderness (v. t.) A disorderly or neglected place.
Wilderness (v. t.) Quality or state of being wild; wildness.
Wildfire (n.) A composition of inflammable materials, which, kindled, is very hard to quench; Greek fire.
Wildfire (n.) An old name for erysipelas.
Wildfire (n.) A disease of sheep, attended with inflammation of the skin.
Wildfire (n.) A sort of lightning unaccompanied by thunder.
Wildgrave (n.) A waldgrave, or head forest keeper. See Waldgrave.
Wilding (n.) A wild or uncultivated plant; especially, a wild apple tree or crab apple; also, the fruit of such a plant.
Wilding (a.) Not tame, domesticated, or cultivated; wild.
Wildish (a.) Somewhat wild; rather wild.
Wildly (adv.) In a wild manner; without cultivation; with disorder; rudely; distractedly; extravagantly.
Wildness (n.) The quality or state of being wild; an uncultivated or untamed state; disposition to rove or go unrestrained; rudeness; savageness; irregularity; distraction.
Wildwood (n.) A wild or unfrequented wood. Also used adjectively; as, wildwood flowers; wildwood echoes.
Wile (n.) A trick or stratagem practiced for insnaring or deception; a sly, insidious; artifice; a beguilement; an allurement.
Wile (v. t.) To practice artifice upon; to deceive; to beguile; to allure.
Wile (v. t.) To draw or turn away, as by diversion; to while or while away; to cause to pass pleasantly.
Wileful (a.) Full of wiles; trickish; deceitful.
Wilful (n.) Alt. of Wilfulness
Wilfully (n.) Alt. of Wilfulness
Wilfulness (n.) See Willful, Willfully, and Willfulness.
Wiliness (n.) The quality or state of being wily; craftiness; cunning; guile.
Wilk (n.) See Whelk.
Will (v.) The power of choosing; the faculty or endowment of the soul by which it is capable of choosing; the faculty or power of the mind by which we decide to do or not to do; the power or faculty of preferring or selecting one of two or more objects.
Will (v.) The choice which is made; a determination or preference which results from the act or exercise of the power of choice; a volition.
Will (v.) The choice or determination of one who has authority; a decree; a command; discretionary pleasure.
Will (v.) Strong wish or inclination; desire; purpose.
Will (v.) That which is strongly wished or desired.
Will (v.) Arbitrary disposal; power to control, dispose, or determine.
Will (v.) The legal declaration of a person's mind as to the manner in which he would have his property or estate disposed of after his death; the written instrument, legally executed, by which a man makes disposition of his estate, to take effect after his death; testament; devise. See the Note under Testament, 1.
Would (imp.) of Will
Will (adv.) To wish; to desire; to incline to have.
Will (adv.) As an auxiliary, will is used to denote futurity dependent on the verb. Thus, in first person, "I will" denotes willingness, consent, promise; and when "will" is emphasized, it denotes determination or fixed purpose; as, I will go if you wish; I will go at all hazards. In the second and third persons, the idea of distinct volition, wish, or purpose is evanescent, and simple certainty is appropriately expressed; as, "You will go," or "He will go," describes a future event as a fact only. To emphasize will denotes (according to the tone or context) certain futurity or fixed determination.
Will (v. i.) To be willing; to be inclined or disposed; to be pleased; to wish; to desire.
Willed (imp. & p. p.) of Will
Willing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Will
Will (n.) To form a distinct volition of; to determine by an act of choice; to ordain; to decree.
Will (n.) To enjoin or command, as that which is determined by an act of volition; to direct; to order.
Will (n.) To give or direct the disposal of by testament; to bequeath; to devise; as, to will one's estate to a child; also, to order or direct by testament; as, he willed that his nephew should have his watch.
Will (v. i.) To exercise an act of volition; to choose; to decide; to determine; to decree.
Willemite (n.) A silicate of zinc, usually occurring massive and of a greenish yellow color, also in reddish crystals (troostite) containing manganese.
Willer (n.) One who wills.
Willet (n.) A large North American snipe (Symphemia semipalmata); -- called also pill-willet, will-willet, semipalmated tattler, or snipe, duck snipe, and stone curlew.
Willful (a.) Of set purpose; self-determined; voluntary; as, willful murder.
Willful (a.) Governed by the will without yielding to reason; obstinate; perverse; inflexible; stubborn; refractory; as, a willful man or horse.
Willier (n.) One who works at a willying machine.
Willing (v. t.) Free to do or to grant; having the mind inclined; not opposed in mind; not choosing to refuse; disposed; not averse; desirous; consenting; complying; ready.
Willing (v. t.) Received of choice, or without reluctance; submitted to voluntarily; chosen; desired.
Willing (v. t.) Spontaneous; self-moved.
Willingly (adv.) In a willing manner; with free will; without reluctance; cheerfully.
Willingness (n.) The quality or state of being willing; free choice or consent of the will; freedom from reluctance; readiness of the mind to do or forbear.
Williwaw (n.) Alt. of Willywaw
Willywaw (n.) A whirlwind, or whirlwind squall, encountered in the Straits of Magellan.
Willock (n.) The common guillemot.
Willock (n.) The puffin.
Will-o'-the-wisp (n.) See Ignis fatuus.
Willow (n.) Any tree or shrub of the genus Salix, including many species, most of which are characterized often used as an emblem of sorrow, desolation, or desertion. "A wreath of willow to show my forsaken plight." Sir W. Scott. Hence, a lover forsaken by, or having lost, the person beloved, is said to wear the willow.
Willow (n.) A machine in which cotton or wool is opened and cleansed by the action of long spikes projecting from a drum which revolves within a box studded with similar spikes; -- probably so called from having been originally a cylindrical cage made of willow rods, though some derive the term from winnow, as denoting the winnowing, or cleansing, action of the machine. Called also willy, twilly, twilly devil, and devil.
Willow (v. t.) To open and cleanse, as cotton, flax, or wool, by means of a willow. See Willow, n., 2.
Willowed (a.) Abounding with willows; containing willows; covered or overgrown with willows.
Willower (n.) A willow. See Willow, n., 2.
Willow-herb (n.) A perennial herb (Epilobium spicatum) with narrow willowlike leaves and showy rose-purple flowers. The name is sometimes made to include other species of the same genus.
Willowish (a.) Having the color of the willow; resembling the willow; willowy.
Willow-thorn (n.) A thorny European shrub (Hippophae rhamnoides) resembling a willow.
Willow-weed (n.) A European species of loosestrife (Lysimachia vulgaris).
Willow-weed (n.) Any kind of Polygonum with willowlike foliage.
Willow-wort (n.) Same as Willow-weed.
Willow-wort (n.) Any plant of the order Salicaceae, or the Willow family.
Willowy (a.) Abounding with willows.
Willowy (a.) Resembling a willow; pliant; flexible; pendent; drooping; graceful.
Willsome (a.) Willful; obstinate.
Willsome (a.) Fat; indolent.
Willsome (a.) Doubtful; uncertain.
Willy (n.) A large wicker basket.
Willy (n.) Same as 1st Willow, 2.
Willying (n.) The process of cleansing wool, cotton, or the like, with a willy, or willow.
Willy nilly () See Will I, nill I, etc., under 3d Will.
Wilne (v. t.) To wish; to desire.
Wilt () 2d pers. sing. of Will.
Wilting (imp. & p. p.) of Wilt
Wilt (v. i.) To begin to wither; to lose freshness and become flaccid, as a plant when exposed when exposed to drought, or to great heat in a dry day, or when separated from its root; to droop;. to wither.
Wilt (v. t.) To cause to begin to wither; to make flaccid, as a green plant.
Wilt (v. t.) Hence, to cause to languish; to depress or destroy the vigor and energy of.
Wilton carpet () A kind of carpet woven with loops like the Brussels, but differing from it in having the loops cut so as to form an elastic velvet pile; -- so called because made originally at Wilton, England.
Wilwe (n.) Willow.
Wily (superl.) Full of wiles, tricks, or stratagems; using craft or stratagem to accomplish a purpose; mischievously artful; subtle.
Wimble (n.) An instrument for boring holes, turned by a handle.
Wimble (n.) A gimlet.
Wimble (n.) A stonecutter's brace for boring holes in stone.
Wimble (n.) An auger used for boring in earth.
Wimbled (imp. & p. p.) of Wimble
Wimbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wimble
Wimble (v. t.) To bore or pierce, as with a wimble.
Wimble (a.) Active; nimble.
Wimbrel (n.) The whimbrel.
Wimple (n.) A covering of silk, linen, or other material, for the neck and chin, formerly worn by women as an outdoor protection, and still retained in the dress of nuns.
Wimple (n.) A flag or streamer.
Wimpled (imp. & p. p.) of Wimple
Wimpling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wimple
Wimple (v. t.) To clothe with a wimple; to cover, as with a veil; hence, to hoodwink.
Wimple (v. t.) To draw down, as a veil; to lay in folds or plaits, as a veil.
Wimple (v. t.) To cause to appear as if laid in folds or plaits; to cause to ripple or undulate; as, the wind wimples the surface of water.
Wimple (v. i.) To lie in folds; also, to appear as if laid in folds or plaits; to ripple; to undulate.
Won (imp. & p. p.) of Win
Wan () of Win
Winning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Win
Win (a.) To gain by superiority in competition or contest; to obtain by victory over competitors or rivals; as, to win the prize in a gate; to win money; to win a battle, or to win a country.
Win (a.) To allure to kindness; to bring to compliance; to gain or obtain, as by solicitation or courtship.
Win (a.) To gain over to one's side or party; to obtain the favor, friendship, or support of; to render friendly or approving; as, to win an enemy; to win a jury.
Win (a.) To come to by toil or effort; to reach; to overtake.
Win (a.) To extract, as ore or coal.
Win (v. i.) To gain the victory; to be successful; to triumph; to prevail.
Winced (imp. & p. p.) of Wince
Wincing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wince
Wince (v. i.) To shrink, as from a blow, or from pain; to flinch; to start back.
Wince (v. i.) To kick or flounce when unsteady, or impatient at a rider; as, a horse winces.
Wince (n.) The act of one who winces.
Wince (n.) A reel used in dyeing, steeping, or washing cloth; a winch. It is placed over the division wall between two wince pits so as to allow the cloth to descend into either compartment. at will.
Wincer (n.) One who, or that which, winces, shrinks, or kicks.
Wincey (n.) Linsey-woolsey.
Winch (v. i.) To wince; to shrink; to kick with impatience or uneasiness.
Winch (n.) A kick, as of a beast, from impatience or uneasiness.
Winch (n.) A crank with a handle, for giving motion to a machine, a grindstone, etc.
Winch (n.) An instrument with which to turn or strain something forcibly.
Winch (n.) An axle or drum turned by a crank with a handle, or by power, for raising weights, as from the hold of a ship, from mines, etc.; a windlass.
Winch (n.) A wince.
Wincing (n.) The act of washing cloth, dipping it in dye, etc., with a wince.
Wincopipe (n.) A little red flower, no doubt the pimpernel, which, when it opens in the morning, is supposed to bode a fair day. See Pimpernel.
Wound (imp. & p. p.) of Wind
Winded () of Wind
Winding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wind
Wind (v. t.) To turn completely, or with repeated turns; especially, to turn about something fixed; to cause to form convolutions about anything; to coil; to twine; to twist; to wreathe; as, to wind thread on a spool or into a ball.
Wind (v. t.) To entwist; to infold; to encircle.
Wind (v. t.) To have complete control over; to turn and bend at one's pleasure; to vary or alter or will; to regulate; to govern.
Wind (v. t.) To introduce by insinuation; to insinuate.
Wind (v. t.) To cover or surround with something coiled about; as, to wind a rope with twine.
Wind (v. i.) To turn completely or repeatedly; to become coiled about anything; to assume a convolved or spiral form; as, vines wind round a pole.
Wind (v. i.) To have a circular course or direction; to crook; to bend; to meander; as, to wind in and out among trees.
Wind (v. i.) To go to the one side or the other; to move this way and that; to double on one's course; as, a hare pursued turns and winds.
Wind (n.) The act of winding or turning; a turn; a bend; a twist; a winding.
Wind (n.) Air naturally in motion with any degree of velocity; a current of air.
Wind (n.) Air artificially put in motion by any force or action; as, the wind of a cannon ball; the wind of a bellows.
Wind (n.) Breath modulated by the respiratory and vocal organs, or by an instrument.
Wind (n.) Power of respiration; breath.
Wind (n.) Air or gas generated in the stomach or bowels; flatulence; as, to be troubled with wind.
Wind (n.) Air impregnated with an odor or scent.
Wind (n.) A direction from which the wind may blow; a point of the compass; especially, one of the cardinal points, which are often called the four winds.
Wind (n.) A disease of sheep, in which the intestines are distended with air, or rather affected with a violent inflammation. It occurs immediately after shearing.
Wind (n.) Mere breath or talk; empty effort; idle words.
Wind (n.) The dotterel.
Winded (imp. & p. p.) of Wind
Winding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wind
Wind (v. t.) To expose to the wind; to winnow; to ventilate.
Wind (v. t.) To perceive or follow by the scent; to scent; to nose; as, the hounds winded the game.
Wind (v. t.) To drive hard, or force to violent exertion, as a horse, so as to render scant of wind; to put out of breath.
Wind (v. t.) To rest, as a horse, in order to allow the breath to be recovered; to breathe.
Wound (imp. & p. p.) of Wind
Winded () of Wind
Winding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wind
Wind (v. t.) To blow; to sound by blowing; esp., to sound with prolonged and mutually involved notes.
Windage (n.) The difference between the diameter of the bore of a gun and that of the shot fired from it.
Windage (n.) The sudden compression of the air caused by a projectile in passing close to another body.
Windas (n.) See 3d Windlass.
Windbore (n.) The lower, or bottom, pipe in a lift of pumps in a mine.
Windbound (a.) prevented from sailing, by a contrary wind. See Weatherbound.
Wind-break (v. t.) To break the wind of; to cause to lose breath; to exhaust.
Wind-break (n.) A clump of trees serving for a protection against the force of wind.
Wind-broken (a.) Having the power of breathing impaired by the rupture, dilatation, or running together of air cells of the lungs, so that while the inspiration is by one effort, the expiration is by two; affected with pulmonary emphysema or with heaves; -- said of a horse.
Winder (n.) One who, or that which, winds; hence, a creeping or winding plant.
Winder (n.) An apparatus used for winding silk, cotton, etc., on spools, bobbins, reels, or the like.
Winder (n.) One in a flight of steps which are curved in plan, so that each tread is broader at one end than at the other; -- distinguished from flyer.
Winder (v. t. & i.) To fan; to clean grain with a fan.
Winder (n.) A blow taking away the breath.
Winder (v. i.) To wither; to fail.
Windfall (n.) Anything blown down or off by the wind, as fruit from a tree, or the tree itself, or a portion of a forest prostrated by a violent wind, etc.
Windfall (n.) An unexpected legacy, or other gain.
Windfallen (a.) Blown down by the wind.
Wind-fertilized (a.) Anemophilous; fertilized by pollen borne by the wind.
Windflower (n.) The anemone; -- so called because formerly supposed to open only when the wind was blowing. See Anemone.
Windgall (n.) A soft tumor or synovial swelling on the fetlock joint of a horse; -- so called from having formerly been supposed to contain air.
Windhover (n.) The kestrel; -- called also windbibber, windcuffer, windfanner.
Windiness (n.) The quality or state of being windy or tempestuous; as, the windiness of the weather or the season.
Windiness (n.) Fullness of wind; flatulence.
Windiness (n.) Tendency to generate wind or gas; tendency to produce flatulence; as, the windiness of vegetables.
Windiness (n.) Tumor; puffiness.
Winding (n.) A call by the boatswain's whistle.
Winding (a.) Twisting from a direct line or an even surface; circuitous.
Winding (n.) A turn or turning; a bend; a curve; flexure; meander; as, the windings of a road or stream.
Winding (n.) A line- or ribbon-shaped material (as wire, string, or bandaging) wound around an object; as, the windings (conducting wires) wound around the armature of an electric motor or generator.
Windingly (adv.) In a winding manner.
Windlace (n. & v.) See Windlass.
Windlass (n.) A winding and circuitous way; a roundabout course; a shift.
Windlass (v. i.) To take a roundabout course; to work warily or by indirect means.
Windlass (n.) A machine for raising weights, consisting of a horizontal cylinder or roller moving on its axis, and turned by a crank, lever, or similar means, so as to wind up a rope or chain attached to the weight. In vessels the windlass is often used instead of the capstan for raising the anchor. It is usually set upon the forecastle, and is worked by hand or steam.
Windlass (n.) An apparatus resembling a winch or windlass, for bending the bow of an arblast, or crossbow.
Windlass (v. t. & i.) To raise with, or as with, a windlass; to use a windlass.
Windle (n.) A spindle; a kind of reel; a winch.
Windle (n.) The redwing.
Windless (a.) Having no wind; calm.
Windless (a.) Wanting wind; out of breath.
Windlestrae (n.) Alt. of Windlestraw
Windlestraw (n.) A grass used for making ropes or for plaiting, esp. Agrostis Spica-ventis.
Windmill (n.) A mill operated by the power of the wind, usually by the action of the wind upon oblique vanes or sails which radiate from a horizontal shaft.
Windore (n.) A window.
Window (n.) An opening in the wall of a building for the admission of light and air, usually closed by casements or sashes containing some transparent material, as glass, and capable of being opened and shut at pleasure.
Window (n.) The shutter, casement, sash with its fittings, or other framework, which closes a window opening.
Window (n.) A figure formed of lines crossing each other.
Windowed (imp. & p. p.) of Window
Windowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Window
Window (v. t.) To furnish with windows.
Window (v. t.) To place at or in a window.
Windowed (a.) Having windows or openings.
Windowless (a.) Destitute of a window.
Windowpane (n.) See Pane, n., (3) b.
Windowpane (n.) A thin, spotted American turbot (Pleuronectes maculatus) remarkable for its translucency. It is not valued as a food fish. Called also spotted turbot, daylight, spotted sand flounder, and water flounder.
Windowy (a.) Having little crossings or openings like the sashes of a window.
Windpipe (n.) The passage for the breath from the larynx to the lungs; the trachea; the weasand. See Illust. under Lung.
Wind-plant (n.) A windflower.
Wind-rode (a.) Caused to ride or drive by the wind in opposition to the course of the tide; -- said of a vessel lying at anchor, with wind and tide opposed to each other.
Windrow (n.) A row or line of hay raked together for the purpose of being rolled into cocks or heaps.
Windrow (n.) Sheaves of grain set up in a row, one against another, that the wind may blow between them.
Windrow (n.) The green border of a field, dug up in order to carry the earth on other land to mend it.
Windrowed (imp. & p. p.) of Windrow
Windrowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Windrow
Windrow (v. t.) To arrange in lines or windrows, as hay when newly made.
Windsor (n.) A town in Berkshire, England.
Windstorm (n.) A storm characterized by high wind with little or no rain.
Wind-sucker (n.) A horse given to wind-sucking
Wind-sucker (n.) The kestrel.
Wind-sucking (n.) A vicious habit of a horse, consisting in the swallowing of air; -- usually associated with crib-biting, or cribbing. See Cribbing, 4.
Windtight (a.) So tight as to prevent the passing through of wind.
Windward (n.) The point or side from which the wind blows; as, to ply to the windward; -- opposed to leeward.
Windward (a.) Situated toward the point from which the wind blows; as, the Windward Islands.
Windward (adv.) Toward the wind; in the direction from which the wind blows.
Windy (superl.) Consisting of wind; accompanied or characterized by wind; exposed to wind.
Windy (superl.) Next the wind; windward.
Windy (superl.) Tempestuous; boisterous; as, windy weather.
Windy (superl.) Serving to occasion wind or gas in the intestines; flatulent; as, windy food.
Windy (superl.) Attended or caused by wind, or gas, in the intestines.
Windy (superl.) Fig.: Empty; airy.
Wine (n.) The expressed juice of grapes, esp. when fermented; a beverage or liquor prepared from grapes by squeezing out their juice, and (usually) allowing it to ferment.
Wine (n.) A liquor or beverage prepared from the juice of any fruit or plant by a process similar to that for grape wine; as, currant wine; gooseberry wine; palm wine.
Wine (n.) The effect of drinking wine in excess; intoxication.
Wineberry (n.) The red currant.
Wineberry (n.) The bilberry.
Wineberry (n.) A peculiar New Zealand shrub (Coriaria ruscifolia), in which the petals ripen and afford an abundant purple juice from which a kind of wine is made. The plant also grows in Chili.
Winebibber (n.) One who drinks much wine.
Wineglass (n.) A small glass from which to drink wine.
Wineglassfuls (pl. ) of Wineglassful
Wineglassful () As much as a wineglass will hold; enough to fill a wineglass. It is usually reckoned at two fluid ounces, or four tablespoonfuls.
Wineless (a.) destitute of wine; as, wineless life.
Winery (n.) A place where grapes are converted into wine.
Wing (n.) One of the two anterior limbs of a bird, pterodactyl, or bat. They correspond to the arms of man, and are usually modified for flight, but in the case of a few species of birds, as the ostrich, auk, etc., the wings are used only as an assistance in running or swimming.
Wing (n.) Any similar member or instrument used for the purpose of flying.
Wing (n.) One of the two pairs of upper thoracic appendages of most hexapod insects. They are broad, fanlike organs formed of a double membrane and strengthened by chitinous veins or nervures.
Wing (n.) One of the large pectoral fins of the flying fishes.
Wing (n.) Passage by flying; flight; as, to take wing.
Wing (n.) Motive or instrument of flight; means of flight or of rapid motion.
Wing (n.) Anything which agitates the air as a wing does, or which is put in winglike motion by the action of the air, as a fan or vane for winnowing grain, the vane or sail of a windmill, etc.
Wing (n.) An ornament worn on the shoulder; a small epaulet or shoulder knot.
Wing (n.) Any appendage resembling the wing of a bird or insect in shape or appearance.
Wing (n.) One of the broad, thin, anterior lobes of the foot of a pteropod, used as an organ in swimming.
Wing (n.) Any membranaceous expansion, as that along the sides of certain stems, or of a fruit of the kind called samara.
Wing (n.) Either of the two side petals of a papilionaceous flower.
Wing (n.) One of two corresponding appendages attached; a sidepiece.
Wing (n.) A side building, less than the main edifice; as, one of the wings of a palace.
Wing (n.) The longer side of crownworks, etc., connecting them with the main work.
Wing (n.) A side shoot of a tree or plant; a branch growing up by the side of another.
Wing (n.) The right or left division of an army, regiment, etc.
Wing (n.) That part of the hold or orlop of a vessel which is nearest the sides. In a fleet, one of the extremities when the ships are drawn up in line, or when forming the two sides of a triangle.
Wing (n.) One of the sides of the stags in a theater.
Winged (imp. & p. p.) of Wing
Winging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wing
Wing (v. t.) To furnish with wings; to enable to fly, or to move with celerity.
Wing (v. t.) To supply with wings or sidepieces.
Wing (v. t.) To transport by flight; to cause to fly.
Wing (v. t.) To move through in flight; to fly through.
Wing (v. t.) To cut off the wings of; to wound in the wing; to disable a wing of; as, to wing a bird.
Winged (a.) Furnished with wings; transported by flying; having winglike expansions.
Winged (a.) Soaring with wings, or as if with wings; hence, elevated; lofty; sublime.
Winged (a.) Swift; rapid.
Winged (a.) Wounded or hurt in the wing.
Winged (a.) Furnished with a leaflike appendage, as the fruit of the elm and the ash, or the stem in certain plants; alate.
Winged (a.) Represented with wings, or having wings, of a different tincture from the body.
Winged (a.) Fanned with wings; swarming with birds.
Winger (n.) One of the casks stowed in the wings of a vessel's hold, being smaller than such as are stowed more amidships.
Wingfish (n.) A sea robin having large, winglike pectoral fins. See Sea robin, under Robin.
Wing-footed (a.) Having wings attached to the feet; as, wing-footed Mercury; hence, swift; moving with rapidity; fleet.
Wing-footed (a.) Having part or all of the feet adapted for flying.
Wing-footed (a.) Having the anterior lobes of the foot so modified as to form a pair of winglike swimming organs; -- said of the pteropod mollusks.
Wing-handed (a.) Having the anterior limbs or hands adapted for flight, as the bats and pterodactyls.
Wing-leaved (a.) Having pinnate or pinnately divided leaves.
Wingless (a.) Having no wings; not able to ascend or fly.
Winglet (n.) A little wing; a very small wing.
Winglet (n.) A bastard wing, or alula.
Wingmanship (n.) Power or skill in flying.
Wing-shell (n.) Any one of various species of marine bivalve shells belonging to the genus Avicula, in which the hinge border projects like a wing.
Wing-shell (n.) Any marine gastropod shell of the genus Strombus. See Strombus.
Wing-shell (n.) Any pteropod shell.
Wingy (a.) Having wings; rapid.
Wingy (a.) Soaring with wings, or as if with wings; volatile airy.
Winked (imp. & p. p.) of Wink
Winking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wink
Wink (v. i.) To nod; to sleep; to nap.
Wink (v. i.) To shut the eyes quickly; to close the eyelids with a quick motion.
Wink (v. i.) To close and open the eyelids quickly; to nictitate; to blink.
Wink (v. i.) To give a hint by a motion of the eyelids, often those of one eye only.
Wink (v. i.) To avoid taking notice, as if by shutting the eyes; to connive at anything; to be tolerant; -- generally with at.
Wink (v. i.) To be dim and flicker; as, the light winks.
Wink (v. t.) To cause (the eyes) to wink.
Wink (n.) The act of closing, or closing and opening, the eyelids quickly; hence, the time necessary for such an act; a moment.
Wink (n.) A hint given by shutting the eye with a significant cast.
Winker (n.) One who winks.
Winker (n.) A horse's blinder; a blinker.
Winkingly (adv.) In a winking manner; with the eye almost closed.
Winkle (n.) Any periwinkle.
Winkle (n.) Any one of various marine spiral gastropods, esp., in the United States, either of two species of Fulgar (F. canaliculata, and F. carica).
Winkle-hawk (n.) A rectangular rent made in cloth; -- called also winkle-hole.
Winnard 2 (n.) The redwing.
Winnebagoes (n.) A tribe of North American Indians who originally occupied the region about Green Bay, Lake Michigan, but were driven back from the lake and nearly exterminated in 1640 by the IIlinnois.
Winner (n.) One who wins, or gains by success in competition, contest, or gaming.
Winning (a.) Attracting; adapted to gain favor; charming; as, a winning address.
Winning (n.) The act of obtaining something, as in a contest or by competition.
Winning (n.) The money, etc., gained by success in competition or contest, esp, in gambling; -- usually in the plural.
Winning (n.) A new opening.
Winning (n.) The portion of a coal field out for working.
Winningly (adv.) In a winning manner.
Winningness (n.) The quality or state of being winning.
Winninish (n.) The land-locked variety of the common salmon.
Winnowed (imp. & p. p.) of Winnew
Winnowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Winnew
Winnew (n.) To separate, and drive off, the chaff from by means of wind; to fan; as, to winnow grain.
Winnew (n.) To sift, as for the purpose of separating falsehood from truth; to separate, as had from good.
Winnew (n.) To beat with wings, or as with wings.
Winnow (v. i.) To separate chaff from grain.
Winnower (n.) One who, or that which, winnows; specifically, a winnowing machine.
Winnowing (n.) The act of one who, or that which, winnows.
Winrow (n.) A windrow.
Winsing (a.) Winsome.
Winsome (a.) Cheerful; merry; gay; light-hearted.
Winsome (a.) Causing joy or pleasure; gladsome; pleasant.
Winsomeness (n.) The characteristic of being winsome; attractiveness of manner.
Winter (n.) The season of the year in which the sun shines most obliquely upon any region; the coldest season of the year.
Winter (n.) The period of decay, old age, death, or the like.
Wintered (imp. & p. p.) of Winter
Wintering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Winter
Winter (v. i.) To pass the winter; to hibernate; as, to winter in Florida.
Winter (v. i.) To keep, feed or manage, during the winter; as, to winter young cattle on straw.
Winter-beaten (a.) Beaten or harassed by the severe weather of winter.
Wintergreen (n.) A plant which keeps its leaves green through the winter.
Winter-ground (v. t.) To coved over in the season of winter, as for protection or shelter; as, to winter-ground the roods of a plant.
Winterkilled (imp. & p. p.) of Winterkill
Winterkilling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Winterkill
Winterkill (v. t.) To kill by the cold, or exposure to the inclemency of winter; as, the wheat was winterkilled.
Winterly (a.) Like winter; wintry; cold; hence, disagreeable, cheerless; as, winterly news.
Winter-proud (a.) Having too rank or forward a growth for winter.
Winter-rig (v. t.) To fallow or till in winter.
Winter's bark () The aromatic bark of tree (Drimys, / Drymis, Winteri) of the Magnolia family, which is found in Southern Chili. It was first used as a cure for scurvy by its discoverer, Captain John Winter, vice admiral to sir Francis Drake, in 1577.
Wintertide (n.) Winter time.
Winterweed (n.) A kind of speedwell (Veronica hederifolia) which spreads chiefly in winter.
Wintery (a.) Wintry.
Wintry (a.) Suitable to winter; resembling winter, or what belongs to winter; brumal; hyemal; cold; stormy; wintery.
Winy (a.) Having the taste or qualities of wine; vinous; as, grapes of a winy taste.
Winze (n.) A small shaft sunk from one level to another, as for the purpose of ventilation.
Wipe (n.) The lapwing.
Wiped (imp. & p. p.) of Wipe
Wiping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wipe
Wipe (v. t.) To rub with something soft for cleaning; to clean or dry by rubbing; as, to wipe the hands or face with a towel.
Wipe (v. t.) To remove by rubbing; to rub off; to obliterate; -- usually followed by away, off or out. Also used figuratively.
Wipe (v. t.) To cheat; to defraud; to trick; -- usually followed by out.
Wipe (n.) Act of rubbing, esp. in order to clean.
Wipe (n.) A blow; a stroke; a hit; a swipe.
Wipe (n.) A gibe; a jeer; a severe sarcasm.
Wipe (n.) A handkerchief.
Wipe (n.) Stain; brand.
Wiper (n.) One who, or that which, wipes.
Wiper (n.) Something used for wiping, as a towel or rag.
Wiper (n.) A piece generally projecting from a rotating or swinging piece, as an axle or rock shaft, for the purpose of raising stampers, lifting rods, or the like, and leaving them to fall by their own weight; a kind of cam.
Wiper (n.) A rod, or an attachment for a rod, for holding a rag with which to wipe out the bore of the barrel.
Wirbled (imp. & p. p.) of Wirble
Wirbling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wirble
Wirble (v. i.) To whirl; to eddy.
Wirche (v. i. & t.) To work
Wire (n.) A thread or slender rod of metal; a metallic substance formed to an even thread by being passed between grooved rollers, or drawn through holes in a plate of steel.
Wire (n.) A telegraph wire or cable; hence, an electric telegraph; as, to send a message by wire.
Wired (imp. & p. p.) of Wire
Wiring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wire
Wire (v. t.) To bind with wire; to attach with wires; to apply wire to; as, to wire corks in bottling liquors.
Wire (v. t.) To put upon a wire; as, to wire beads.
Wire (v. t.) To snare by means of a wire or wires.
Wire (v. t.) To send (a message) by telegraph.
Wire (v. i.) To pass like a wire; to flow in a wirelike form, or in a tenuous stream.
Wire (v. i.) To send a telegraphic message.
Wiredrew (imp.) of Wiredraw
Wiredrawn (p. p.) of Wiredraw
Wiredrawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wiredraw
Wiredraw (v. t.) To form (a piece of metal) into wire, by drawing it through a hole in a plate of steel.
Wiredraw (v. t.) Hence, to draw by art or violence.
Wiredraw (v. t.) Hence, also, to draw or spin out to great length and tenuity; as, to wiredraw an argument.
Wiredraw (v. t.) To pass, or to draw off, (as steam) through narrow ports, or the like, thus reducing its pressure or force by friction.
Wire-drawer (n.) One who draws metal into wire.
Wire-heel (n.) A disease in the feet of a horse or other beast.
Wire-puller (n.) One who pulls the wires, as of a puppet; hence, one who operates by secret means; an intriguer.
Wire-pulling (n.) The act of pulling the wires, as of a puppet; hence, secret influence or management, especially in politics; intrigue.
Wire-tailed (a.) Having some or all of the tail quills terminated in a long, slender, pointed shaft, without a web or barbules.
Wirework (n.) Work, especially openwork, formed of wires.
Wire-worker (n.) One who manufactures articles from wire.
Wireworm (n.) One of the larvae of various species of snapping beetles, or elaters; -- so called from their slenderness and the uncommon hardness of the integument. Wireworms are sometimes very destructive to the roots of plants. Called also wire grub.
Wireworm (n.) A galleyworm.
Wiriness (n.) The quality of being wiry.
Wiry (a.) Made of wire; like wire; drawn out like wire.
Wiry (a.) Capable of endurance; tough; sinewy; as, a wiry frame or constitution.
Wis (adv.) Certainly; really; indeed.
Wis (v. t.) To think; to suppose; to imagine; -- used chiefly in the first person sing. present tense, I wis. See the Note under Ywis.
Wisard (n.) See Wizard.
Wisdom (a.) The quality of being wise; knowledge, and the capacity to make due use of it; knowledge of the best ends and the best means; discernment and judgment; discretion; sagacity; skill; dexterity.
Wisdom (a.) The results of wise judgments; scientific or practical truth; acquired knowledge; erudition.
Wise (v.) Having knowledge; knowing; enlightened; of extensive information; erudite; learned.
Wise (v.) Hence, especially, making due use of knowledge; discerning and judging soundly concerning what is true or false, proper or improper; choosing the best ends and the best means for accomplishing them; sagacious.
Wise (v.) Versed in art or science; skillful; dexterous; specifically, skilled in divination.
Wise (v.) Hence, prudent; calculating; shrewd; wary; subtle; crafty.
Wise (v.) Dictated or guided by wisdom; containing or exhibiting wisdom; well adapted to produce good effects; judicious; discreet; as, a wise saying; a wise scheme or plan; wise conduct or management; a wise determination.
Wise (v.) Way of being or acting; manner; mode; fashion.
Wiseacre (v.) A learned or wise man.
Wiseacre (v.) One who makes undue pretensions to wisdom; a would-be-wise person; hence, in contempt, a simpleton; a dunce.
Wise-hearted (a.) Wise; knowing; skillful; sapient; erudite; prudent.
Wise-like (a.) Resembling that which is wise or sensible; judicious.
Wiseling (n.) One who pretends to be wise; a wiseacre; a witling.
Wisely (adv.) In a wise manner; prudently; judiciously; discreetly; with wisdom.
Wiseness (n.) Wisdom.
Wished (imp. & p. p.) of Wish
Wishing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wish
Wish (v. t.) To have a desire or yearning; to long; to hanker.
Wish (v. t.) To desire; to long for; to hanker after; to have a mind or disposition toward.
Wish (v. t.) To frame or express desires concerning; to invoke in favor of, or against, any one; to attribute, or cal down, in desire; to invoke; to imprecate.
Wish (v. t.) To recommend; to seek confidence or favor in behalf of.
Wish (n.) Desire; eager desire; longing.
Wish (n.) Expression of desire; request; petition; hence, invocation or imprecation.
Wish (n.) A thing desired; an object of desire.
Wishable (a.) Capable or worthy of being wished for; desirable.
Wishbone (n.) The forked bone in front of the breastbone in birds; -- called also merrythought, and wishing bone. See Merrythought, and Furculum.
Wishedly (adv.) According to wish; conformably to desire.
Wisher (n.) One who wishes or desires; one who expresses a wish.
Wishful (a.) Having desire, or ardent desire; longing.
Wishful (a.) Showing desire; as, wishful eyes.
Wishful (a.) Desirable; exciting wishes.
Wishing () a. & n. from Wish, v. t.
Wishly (adv.) According to desire; longingly; with wishes.
Wishtonwish (n.) The prairie dog.
Wish-wash (n.) Any weak, thin drink.
Wishy-washy (a.) Thin and pale; weak; without strength or substance; -- originally said of liquids. Fig., weak-minded; spiritless.
Wishy-washy (n.) A weak or thin drink or liquor; wish-wash.
Wisket (n.) A whisket, or basket.
Wisly (adv.) Certainly.
Wisp (n.) A small bundle, as of straw or other like substance.
Wisp (n.) A whisk, or small broom.
Wisp (n.) A Will-o'-the-wisp; an ignis fatuus.
Wisped (imp. & p. p.) of Wisp
Wisping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wisp
Wisp (v. t.) To brush or dress, an with a wisp.
Wisp (v. t.) To rumple.
Wispen (a.) Formed of a wisp, or of wisp; as, a wispen broom.
Wisse (a.) To show; to teach; to inform; to guide; to direct.
Wist (v.) Knew.
Wistaria (n.) A genus of climbing leguminous plants bearing long, pendulous clusters of pale bluish flowers.
Wistful (a.) Longing; wishful; desirous.
Wistful (a.) Full of thought; eagerly attentive; meditative; musing; pensive; contemplative.
Wistit (n.) A small South American monkey; a marmoset.
Wistly (adv.) Attentively; observingly.
Wistonwish (n.) See Wishtonwish.
Wit (inf.) of Wit
Wot (pres. sing.) of Wit
Wite (pl.) of Wit
Wist (e) (imp.) of Wit
Wist (p. p.) of Wit
Wit (t)ing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wit
Wit (n.) To know; to learn.
Wit (v.) Mind; intellect; understanding; sense.
Wit (v.) A mental faculty, or power of the mind; -- used in this sense chiefly in the plural, and in certain phrases; as, to lose one's wits; at one's wits' end, and the like.
Wit (v.) Felicitous association of objects not usually connected, so as to produce a pleasant surprise; also. the power of readily combining objects in such a manner.
Wit (v.) A person of eminent sense or knowledge; a man of genius, fancy, or humor; one distinguished for bright or amusing sayings, for repartee, and the like.
Witch (n.) A cone of paper which is placed in a vessel of lard or other fat, and used as a taper.
Witch (n.) One who practices the black art, or magic; one regarded as possessing supernatural or magical power by compact with an evil spirit, esp. with the Devil; a sorcerer or sorceress; -- now applied chiefly or only to women, but formerly used of men as well.
Witch (n.) An ugly old woman; a hag.
Witch (n.) One who exercises more than common power of attraction; a charming or bewitching person; also, one given to mischief; -- said especially of a woman or child.
Witch (n.) A certain curve of the third order, described by Maria Agnesi under the name versiera.
Witch (n.) The stormy petrel.
Witched (imp. & p. p.) of Witch
Witching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Witch
Witch (v. t.) To bewitch; to fascinate; to enchant.
Witchcraft (n.) The practices or art of witches; sorcery; enchantments; intercourse with evil spirits.
Witchcraft (n.) Power more than natural; irresistible influence.
Witch-elm (n.) See Wych-elm.
Witcheries (pl. ) of Witchery
Witchery (n.) Sorcery; enchantment; witchcraft.
Witchery (n.) Fascination; irresistible influence; enchantment.
Witch-hazel (n.) The wych-elm.
Witch-hazel (n.) An American shrub or small tree (Hamamelis Virginica), which blossoms late in autumn.
Witching (a.) That witches or enchants; suited to enchantment or witchcraft; bewitching.
Witch-tree (n.) The witch-hazel.
Witchuck (n.) The sand martin, or bank swallow.
Wit-cracker (n.) One who breaks jests; a joker.
Witcraft (n.) Art or skill of the mind; contrivance; invention; wit.
Witcraft (n.) The art of reasoning; logic.
Wite (v.) To reproach; to blame; to censure; also, to impute as blame.
Wite (v.) Blame; reproach.
Witeless (a.) Blameless.
Witen () pl. pres. of Wit.
Witenagemote (n.) A meeting of wise men; the national council, or legislature, of England in the days of the Anglo-Saxons, before the Norman Conquest.
Witfish (n.) The ladyfish (a).
Witful (a.) Wise; sensible.
With (n.) See Withe.
With (prep.) With denotes or expresses some situation or relation of nearness, proximity, association, connection, or the like.
With (prep.) To denote a close or direct relation of opposition or hostility; -- equivalent to against.
With (prep.) To denote association in respect of situation or environment; hence, among; in the company of.
With (prep.) To denote a connection of friendship, support, alliance, assistance, countenance, etc.; hence, on the side of.
With (prep.) To denote the accomplishment of cause, means, instrument, etc; -- sometimes equivalent to by.
With (prep.) To denote association in thought, as for comparison or contrast.
With (prep.) To denote simultaneous happening, or immediate succession or consequence.
With (prep.) To denote having as a possession or an appendage; as, the firmament with its stars; a bride with a large fortune.
Withal (adv.) With this; with that.
Withal (adv.) Together with this; likewise; at the same time; in addition; also.
Withal (prep.) With; -- put after its object, at the end of sentence or clause in which it stands.
Withamite (n.) A variety of epidote, of a reddish color, found in Scotland.
Withdrew (imp.) of Withdraw
Withdrawn (p. p.) of Withdraw
Withdrawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Withdraw
Withdraw (v. t.) To take back or away, as what has been bestowed or enjoyed; to draw back; to cause to move away or retire; as, to withdraw aid, favor, capital, or the like.
Withdraw (v. t.) To take back; to recall or retract; as, to withdraw false charges.
Withdraw (v. i.) To retire; to retreat; to quit a company or place; to go away; as, he withdrew from the company.
Withdrawal (n.) The act of withdrawing; withdrawment; retreat; retraction.
Withdrawer (n.) One who withdraws; one who takes back, or retracts.
Withdrawing-room (n.) A room for retirement from another room, as from a dining room; a drawing-room.
Withdrawment (n.) The act of withdrawing; withdrawal.
Withe (n.) A flexible, slender twig or branch used as a band; a willow or osier twig; a withy.
Withe (n.) A band consisting of a twig twisted.
Withe (n.) An iron attachment on one end of a mast or boom, with a ring, through which another mast or boom is rigged out and secured; a wythe.
Withe (n.) A partition between flues in a chimney.
Withed (imp. & p. p.) of Withe
Withing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Withe
Withe (v. t.) To bind or fasten with withes.
Withered (imp. & p. p.) of Wither
Withering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wither
Wither (n.) To fade; to lose freshness; to become sapless; to become sapless; to dry or shrivel up.
Wither (n.) To lose or want animal moisture; to waste; to pin/ away, as animal bodies.
Wither (n.) To lose vigor or power; to languish; to pass away.
Wither (v. t.) To cause to fade, and become dry.
Wither (v. t.) To cause to shrink, wrinkle, or decay, for want of animal moisture.
Wither (v. t.) To cause to languish, perish, or pass away; to blight; as, a reputation withered by calumny.
Witherband (n.) A piece of iron in a saddle near a horse's withers, to strengthen the bow.
Withered (a.) Faded; dried up; shriveled; wilted; wasted; wasted away.
Withering (a.) Tending to wither; causing to shrink or fade.
Witherite (n.) Barium carbonate occurring in white or gray six-sided twin crystals, and also in columnar or granular masses.
Witherling (n.) A withered person; one who is decrepit.
Withernam (n.) A second or reciprocal distress of other goods in lieu of goods which were taken by a first distress and have been eloigned; a taking by way of reprisal; -- chiefly used in the expression capias in withernam, which is the name of a writ used in connection with the action of replevin (sometimes called a writ of reprisal), which issues to a defendant in replevin when he has obtained judgment for a return of the chattels replevied, and fails to obtain them on the writ of return.
Withe-rod (n.) A North American shrub (Viburnum nudum) whose tough osierlike shoots are sometimes used for binding sheaves.
Withers (prep.) The ridge between the shoulder bones of a horse, at the base of the neck. See Illust. of Horse.
Wither-wrung (a.) Injured or hurt in the withers, as a horse.
Withheld (imp.) of Withhold
Withheld (p. p.) of Withhold
Withholden () of Withhold
Withholding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Withhold
Withhold (v. t.) To hold back; to restrain; to keep from action.
Withhold (v. t.) To retain; to keep back; not to grant; as, to withhold assent to a proposition.
Withhold (v. t.) To keep; to maintain; to retain.
Withholder (n.) One who withholds.
Withholdment (n.) The act of withholding.
Within (prep.) In the inner or interior part of; inside of; not without; as, within doors.
Within (prep.) In the limits or compass of; not further in length than; as, within five miles; not longer in time than; as, within an hour; not exceeding in quantity; as, expenses kept within one's income.
Within (prep.) Hence, inside the limits, reach, or influence of; not going outside of; not beyond, overstepping, exceeding, or the like.
Within (adv.) In the inner part; inwardly; internally.
Within (adv.) In the house; in doors; as, the master is within.
Withinforth (adv.) Within; inside; inwardly.
Withinside (adv.) In the inner parts; inside.
Without (prep.) On or at the outside of; out of; not within; as, without doors.
Without (prep.) Out of the limits of; out of reach of; beyond.
Without (prep.) Not with; otherwise than with; in absence of, separation from, or destitution of; not with use or employment of; independently of; exclusively of; with omission; as, without labor; without damage.
Without (conj.) Unless; except; -- introducing a clause.
Without (adv.) On or art the outside; not on the inside; not within; outwardly; externally.
Without (adv.) Outside of the house; out of doors.
Without-door (a.) Outdoor; exterior.
Withouten (prep.) Without.
Withoutforth (adv.) Without; outside' outwardly. Cf. Withinforth.
Withsay (v. t.) To contradict; to gainsay; to deny; to renounce.
Withset (v. t.) To set against; to oppose.
Withstood (imp. & p. p.) of Withstand
Withstanding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Withstand
Withstand (prep.) To stand against; to oppose; to resist, either with physical or moral force; as, to withstand an attack of troops; to withstand eloquence or arguments.
Withstander (n.) One who withstands, or opposes; an opponent; a resisting power.
Withstood (imp. & p. p.) o/ Withstand.
Withvine (n.) Quitch grass.
Withwind (n.) A kind of bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis).
Withwine (n.) Same as Withvine.
Withies (pl. ) of Withy
Withy (n.) The osier willow (Salix viminalis). See Osier, n. (a).
Withy (n.) A withe. See Withe, 1.
Withy (a.) Made of withes; like a withe; flexible and tough; also, abounding in withes.
Witing (v.) Knowledge.
Witless (a.) Destitute of wit or understanding; wanting thought; hence, indiscreet; not under the guidance of judgment.
Witling (n.) A person who has little wit or understanding; a pretender to wit or smartness.
Witness (v. i.) Attestation of a fact or an event; testimony.
Witness (v. i.) That which furnishes evidence or proof.
Witness (v. i.) One who is cognizant; a person who beholds, or otherwise has personal knowledge of, anything; as, an eyewitness; an earwitness.
Witness (v. i.) One who testifies in a cause, or gives evidence before a judicial tribunal; as, the witness in court agreed in all essential facts.
Witness (v. i.) One who sees the execution of an instrument, and subscribes it for the purpose of confirming its authenticity by his testimony; one who witnesses a will, a deed, a marriage, or the like.
Witnessed (imp. & p. p.) of Witness
Witnessing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Witness
Witness (v. t.) To see or know by personal presence; to have direct cognizance of.
Witness (v. t.) To give testimony to; to testify to; to attest.
Witness (v. t.) To see the execution of, as an instrument, and subscribe it for the purpose of establishing its authenticity; as, to witness a bond or a deed.
Witness (v. i.) To bear testimony; to give evidence; to testify.
Witnesser (n.) One who witness.
Wit-snapper (n.) One who affects repartee; a wit-cracker.
Wit-starved (a.) Barren of wit; destitute of genius.
Witted (a.) Having (such) a wit or understanding; as, a quick-witted boy.
Witticaster (n.) A witling.
Witticism (n.) A witty saying; a sentence or phrase which is affectedly witty; an attempt at wit; a conceit.
Wittified (a.) Possessed of wit; witty.
Witily (adv.) In a witty manner; wisely; ingeniously; artfully; with it; with a delicate turn or phrase, or with an ingenious association of ideas.
Wittiness (n.) The quality of being witty.
Wittingly (v.) Knowingly; with knowledge; by design.
Wittol (n.) The wheatear.
Wittol (n.) A man who knows his wife's infidelity and submits to it; a tame cuckold; -- so called because the cuckoo lays its eggs in the wittol's nest.
Wittolly (a.) Like a wittol; cuckoldly.
Witts (n.) Tin ore freed from earthy matter by stamping.
Witty (n.) Possessed of wit; knowing; wise; skillful; judicious; clever; cunning.
Witty (n.) Especially, possessing wit or humor; good at repartee; droll; facetious; sometimes, sarcastic; as, a witty remark, poem, and the like.
Witwal (n.) Alt. of Witwall
Witwall (n.) The golden oriole.
Witwall (n.) The greater spotted woodpecker.
Witworm (n.) One who, or that which, feeds on or destroys wit.
Wived (imp. & p. p.) of Wive
Wiving (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wive
Wive (v. i.) To marry, as a man; to take a wife.
Wive (v. t.) To match to a wife; to provide with a wife.
Wive (v. t.) To take for a wife; to marry.
Wivehood (n.) Wifehood.
Wiveless (a.) Wifeless.
Wively (a.) Wifely.
Wiver (n.) Alt. of Wivern
Wivern (n.) A fabulous two-legged, winged creature, like a cockatrice, but having the head of a dragon, and without spurs.
Wivern (n.) The weever.
Wives (n.) pl. of Wife.
Wizard (n.) A wise man; a sage.
Wizard (n.) One devoted to the black art; a magician; a conjurer; a sorcerer; an enchanter.
Wizard (a.) Enchanting; charming.
Wizard (a.) Haunted by wizards.
Wizardly (a.) Resembling or becoming a wizard; wizardlike; weird.
Wizardry (n.) The character or practices o/ wizards; sorcery; magic.
Wizen (v. i.) To wither; to dry.
Wizen (a.) Wizened; thin; weazen; withered.
Wizen (n.) The weasand.
Wizened (a.) Dried; shriveled; withered; shrunken; weazen; as, a wizened old man.
Wizen-faced (a.) Having a shriveled, thin, withered face.
Wlatsome (a.) Loathsome; disgusting; hateful.
Wo (n. & a.) See Woe.
Woad (n.) An herbaceous cruciferous plant (Isatis tinctoria). It was formerly cultivated for the blue coloring matter derived from its leaves.
Woad (n.) A blue dyestuff, or coloring matter, consisting of the powdered and fermented leaves of the Isatis tinctoria. It is now superseded by indigo, but is somewhat used with indigo as a ferment in dyeing.
Woaded (a.) Colored or stained with woad.
Woad-waxen (n.) A leguminous plant (Genista tinctoria) of Europe and Russian Asia, and adventitious in America; -- called also greenwood, greenweed, dyer's greenweed, and whin, wood-wash, wood-wax, and wood-waxen.
Woald (n.) See Weld.
Wobble (v. i.) See Wabble.
Wode (a.) Mad. See Wood, a.
Wode (n.) Wood.
Wodegeld (n.) A geld, or payment, for wood.
Woden (n.) A deity corresponding to Odin, the supreme deity of the Scandinavians. Wednesday is named for him. See Odin.
Woe (n.) Grief; sorrow; misery; heavy calamity.
Woe (n.) A curse; a malediction.
Woe (a.) Woeful; sorrowful.
Woe-begone (a.) Beset or overwhelmed with woe; immersed in grief or sorrow; woeful.
Woeful (a.) Alt. of Woful
Woful (a.) Full of woe; sorrowful; distressed with grief or calamity; afflicted; wretched; unhappy; sad.
Woful (a.) Bringing calamity, distress, or affliction; as, a woeful event; woeful want.
Woful (a.) Wretched; paltry; miserable; poor.
Woefully (adv.) Alt. of Wofully
Wofully (adv.) In a woeful manner; sorrowfully; mournfully; miserably; dolefully.
Woefulness (n.) Alt. of Wofulness
Wofulness (n.) The quality or state of being woeful; misery; wretchedness.
Woesome (a.) Woeful.
Woke (imp. & p. p.) Wake.
Wol (v. t. & i.) See 2d Will.
Wold (n.) A wood; a forest.
Wold (n.) A plain, or low hill; a country without wood, whether hilly or not.
Wold (n.) See Weld.
Wolde () imp. of Will. See Would.
Wolves (pl. ) of Wolf
Wolf (a.) Any one of several species of wild and savage carnivores belonging to the genus Canis and closely allied to the common dog. The best-known and most destructive species are the European wolf (Canis lupus), the American gray, or timber, wolf (C. occidentalis), and the prairie wolf, or coyote. Wolves often hunt in packs, and may thus attack large animals and even man.
Wolf (a.) One of the destructive, and usually hairy, larvae of several species of beetles and grain moths; as, the bee wolf.
Wolf (a.) Fig.: Any very ravenous, rapacious, or destructive person or thing; especially, want; starvation; as, they toiled hard to keep the wolf from the door.
Wolf (a.) A white worm, or maggot, which infests granaries.
Wolf (a.) An eating ulcer or sore. Cf. Lupus.
Wolf (a.) The harsh, howling sound of some of the chords on an organ or piano tuned by unequal temperament.
Wolf (a.) In bowed instruments, a harshness due to defective vibration in certain notes of the scale.
Wolf (a.) A willying machine.
Wolfberry (n.) An American shrub (Symphoricarpus occidentalis) which bears soft white berries.
Wolffian (a.) Discovered, or first described, by Caspar Friedrich Wolff (1733-1794), the founder of modern embryology.
Wolfish (a.) Like a wolf; having the qualities or form of a wolf; as, a wolfish visage; wolfish designs.
Wolfkin (n.) A little or young wolf.
Wolfling (n.) A young wolf.
Wolfram (n.) Same as Wolframite.
Wolframate (n.) A salt of wolframic acid; a tungstate.
Wolframic (a.) Of or pertaining to wolframium. See Tungstic.
Wolframite (n.) Tungstate of iron and manganese, generally of a brownish or grayish black color, submetallic luster, and high specific gravity. It occurs in cleavable masses, and also crystallized. Called also wolfram.
Wolframium (n.) The technical name of the element tungsten. See Tungsten.
Wolfsbane (n.) A poisonous plant (Aconitum Lycoctonum), a kind of monkshood; also, by extension, any plant or species of the genus Aconitum. See Aconite.
Wolf's-claw (n.) A kind of club moss. See Lycopodium.
Wolf's-foot (n.) Club moss. See Lycopodium.
Wolf's-milk (n.) Any kind of spurge (Euphorbia); -- so called from its acrid milky juice.
Woll (v. t. & i.) See 2d Will.
Wollastonite (n.) A silicate of lime of a white to gray, red, or yellow color, occurring generally in cleavable masses, rarely in tabular crystals; tabular spar.
Wolle (n.) Wool.
Wolverene (n.) Alt. of Wolverine
Wolverine (n.) The glutton.
Wolverine (n.) A nickname for an inhabitant of Michigan.
Wolves (n.) pl. of Wolf.
Wolvish (a.) Wolfish.
Women (pl. ) of Woman
Woman (n.) An adult female person; a grown-up female person, as distinguished from a man or a child; sometimes, any female person.
Woman (n.) The female part of the human race; womankind.
Woman (n.) A female attendant or servant.
Woman (v. t.) To act the part of a woman in; -- with indefinite it.
Woman (v. t.) To make effeminate or womanish.
Woman (v. t.) To furnish with, or unite to, a woman.
Womanhead (n.) Alt. of Womanhede
Womanhede (n.) Womanhood.
Womanhood (n.) The state of being a woman; the distinguishing character or qualities of a woman, or of womankind.
Womanhood (n.) Women, collectively; womankind.
Womanish (a.) Suitable to a woman, having the qualities of a woman; effeminate; not becoming a man; -- usually in a reproachful sense. See the Note under Effeminate.
Womanize (v. t.) To make like a woman; to make effeminate.
Womankind (n.) The females of the human race; women, collectively.
Womanless (a.) Without a woman or women.
Womanlike (a.) Like a woman; womanly.
Womanliness (n.) The quality or state of being womanly.
Womanly (a.) Becoming a woman; feminine; as, womanly behavior.
Womanly (adv.) In the manner of a woman; with the grace, tenderness, or affection of a woman.
Womb (n.) The belly; the abdomen.
Womb (n.) The uterus. See Uterus.
Womb (n.) The place where anything is generated or produced.
Womb (n.) Any cavity containing and enveloping anything.
Womb (v. t.) To inclose in a womb, or as in a womb; to breed or hold in secret.
Wombat (n.) Any one of three species of Australian burrowing marsupials of the genus Phascolomys, especially the common species (P. ursinus). They are nocturnal in their habits, and feed mostly on roots.
Womby (a.) Capacious.
Women (n.) pl. of Woman.
Won () imp. & p. p. of Win.
Won (v. i.) To dwell or abide.
Won (n.) Dwelling; wone.
Wonder (n.) That emotion which is excited by novelty, or the presentation to the sight or mind of something new, unusual, strange, great, extraordinary, or not well understood; surprise; astonishment; admiration; amazement.
Wonder (n.) A cause of wonder; that which excites surprise; a strange thing; a prodigy; a miracle.
Wondered (imp. & p. p.) of Wonder
Wondering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wonder
Wonder (v. i.) To be affected with surprise or admiration; to be struck with astonishment; to be amazed; to marvel.
Wonder (v. i.) To feel doubt and curiosity; to wait with uncertain expectation; to query in the mind; as, he wondered why they came.
Wonder (a.) Wonderful.
Wonder (adv.) Wonderfully.
Wondered (a.) Having performed wonders; able to perform wonderful things.
Wonderer (n.) One who wonders.
Wonderful (a.) Adapted to excite wonder or admiration; surprising; strange; astonishing.
Wonderingly (adv.) In a wondering manner.
Wonderland (n.) A land full of wonders, or marvels.
Wonderly (adv.) Wonderfully; wondrously.
Wonderment (n.) Surprise; astonishment; a wonderful appearance; a wonder.
Wonderous (a.) Same as Wondrous.
Wonders (adv.) See Wondrous.
Wonderstruck (a.) Struck with wonder, admiration, or surprise.
Wonderwork (n.) A wonderful work or act; a prodigy; a miracle.
Wonder-worker (n.) One who performs wonders, or miracles.
Wonder-working (a.) Doing wonders or surprising things.
Wondrous (n.) In a wonderful or surprising manner or degree; wonderfully.
Wondrous (a.) Wonderful; astonishing; admirable; marvelous; such as excite surprise and astonishment; strange.
Wone (a.) To dwell; to abide.
Wone (a.) Dwelling; habitation; abode.
Wone (a.) Custom; habit; wont; use; usage.
Wong (n.) A field.
Wonger (n.) See Wanger.
Woning (n.) Dwelling.
Won't () A colloquial contraction of woll not. Will not. See Will.
Wont (a.) Using or doing customarily; accustomed; habituated; used.
Wont (n.) Custom; habit; use; usage.
Wont (imp.) of Wont
Wont (p. p.) of Wont
Wonted () of Wont
Wonting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wont
Wont (v. i.) To be accustomed or habituated; to be used.
Wont (v. t.) To accustom; -- used reflexively.
Wonted (a.) Accustomed; customary; usual.
Wontedness (n.) The quality or state of being accustomed.
Wontless (a.) Unaccustomed.
Wooed (imp. & p. p.) of Woo
Wooing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Woo
Woo (v. t.) To solicit in love; to court.
Woo (v. t.) To court solicitously; to invite with importunity.
Woo (v. i.) To court; to make love.
Wood (a.) Mad; insane; possessed; rabid; furious; frantic.
Wood (v. i.) To grow mad; to act like a madman; to mad.
Wood (n.) A large and thick collection of trees; a forest or grove; -- frequently used in the plural.
Wood (n.) The substance of trees and the like; the hard fibrous substance which composes the body of a tree and its branches, and which is covered by the bark; timber.
Wood (n.) The fibrous material which makes up the greater part of the stems and branches of trees and shrubby plants, and is found to a less extent in herbaceous stems. It consists of elongated tubular or needle-shaped cells of various kinds, usually interwoven with the shinning bands called silver grain.
Wood (n.) Trees cut or sawed for the fire or other uses.
Wooded (imp. & p. p.) of Wood
Wooding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wood
Wood (v. t.) To supply with wood, or get supplies of wood for; as, to wood a steamboat or a locomotive.
Wood (v. i.) To take or get a supply of wood.
Woodbind (n.) Woodbine.
Woodbine (v. t.) A climbing plant having flowers of great fragrance (Lonicera Periclymenum); the honeysuckle.
Woodbine (v. t.) The Virginia creeper. See Virginia creeper, under Virginia.
Wood-bound (a.) Incumbered with tall, woody hedgerows.
Woodbury-type (n.) A process in photographic printing, in which a relief pattern in gelatin, which has been hardened after certain operations, is pressed upon a plate of lead or other soft metal. An intaglio impression in thus produced, from which pictures may be directly printed, but by a slower process than in common printing.
Woodbury-type (n.) A print from such a plate.
Woodchat (n.) Any one of several species of Asiatic singing birds belonging to the genera Ianthia and Larvivora. They are closely allied to the European robin. The males are usually bright blue above, and more or less red or rufous beneath.
Woodchat (n.) A European shrike (Enneoctonus rufus). In the male the head and nape are rufous red; the back, wings, and tail are black, varied with white.
Woodchuck (n.) A common large North American marmot (Arctomys monax). It is usually reddish brown, more or less grizzled with gray. It makes extensive burrows, and is often injurious to growing crops. Called also ground hog.
Woodchuck (n.) The yaffle, or green woodpecker.
Woodcock (n.) Any one of several species of long-billed limicoline birds belonging to the genera Scolopax and Philohela. They are mostly nocturnal in their habits, and are highly esteemed as game birds.
Woodcock (n.) Fig.: A simpleton.
Woodcracker (n.) The nuthatch.
Woodcraft (n.) Skill and practice in anything pertaining to the woods, especially in shooting, and other sports in the woods.
Woodcut (n.) An engraving on wood; also, a print from it. Same as Wood cut, under Wood.
Woodcutter (n.) A person who cuts wood.
Woodcutter (n.) An engraver on wood.
Woodcutting (n.) The act or employment of cutting wood or timber.
Woodcutting (n.) The act or art of engraving on wood.
Wooded (a.) Supplied or covered with wood, or trees; as, land wooded and watered.
Wooden (a.) Made or consisting of wood; pertaining to, or resembling, wood; as, a wooden box; a wooden leg; a wooden wedding.
Wooden (a.) Clumsy; awkward; ungainly; stiff; spiritless.
Woodenly (adv.) Clumsily; stupidly; blockishly.
Woodenness (n.) Quality of being wooden; clumsiness; stupidity; blockishness.
Woodhack (n.) Alt. of Woodhacker
Woodhacker (n.) The yaffle.
Woodnewer (n.) A woodpecker.
Woodhole (n.) A place where wood is stored.
Woodhouse (n.) A house or shed in which wood is stored, and sheltered from the weather.
Woodiness (n.) The quality or state of being woody.
Woodknacker (n.) The yaffle.
Woodland (n.) Land covered with wood or trees; forest; land on which trees are suffered to grow, either for fuel or timber.
Woodland (a.) Of or pertaining to woods or woodland; living in the forest; sylvan.
Woodlander (n.) A dweller in a woodland.
Wood-layer (n.) A young oak, or other timber plant, laid down in a hedge among the whitethorn or other plants used in hedges.
Woodless (a.) Having no wood; destitute of wood.
Woodly (adv.) In a wood, mad, or raving manner; madly; furiously.
Woodmen (pl. ) of Woodman
Woodman (n.) A forest officer appointed to take care of the king's woods; a forester.
Woodman (n.) A sportsman; a hunter.
Woodman (n.) One who cuts down trees; a woodcutter.
Woodman (n.) One who dwells in the woods or forest; a bushman.
Woodmeil (n.) See Wadmol.
Woodmonger (n.) A wood seller.
Woodness (n.) Anger; madness; insanity; rage.
Wood-note (n.) A wild or natural note, as of a forest bird.
Woodpeck (n.) A woodpecker.
Woodpecker (n.) Any one of numerous species of scansorial birds belonging to Picus and many allied genera of the family Picidae.
Woodrock (n.) A compact woodlike variety of asbestus.
Woodruff (n.) Alt. of Woodroof
Woodroof (n.) A little European herb (Asperula odorata) having a pleasant taste. It is sometimes used for flavoring wine. See Illust. of Whorl.
Wood-sare (n.) A kind of froth seen on herbs.
Wood-sere (n.) The time when there no sap in the trees; the winter season.
Woodsmen (pl. ) of Woodsman
Woodsman (n.) A woodman; especially, one who lives in the forest.
Wood's metal () A fusible alloy consisting of one or two parts of cadmium, two parts of tin, four of lead, with seven or eight part of bismuth. It melts at from 66 to 71 C. See Fusible metal, under Fusible.
Woodstone (n.) A striped variety of hornstone, resembling wood in appearance.
Woodsy (a.) Of or pertaining to the woods or forest.
Wood tick () Any one of several species of ticks of the genus Ixodes whose young cling to bushes, but quickly fasten themselves upon the bodies of any animal with which they come in contact. When they attach themselves to the human body they often produce troublesome sores. The common species of the Northern United States is Ixodes unipunctata.
Woodwall (n.) The yaffle.
Woodward (n.) An officer of the forest, whose duty it was to guard the woods.
Woodwardia (n.) A genus of ferns, one species of which (Woodwardia radicans) is a showy plant in California, the Azores, etc.
Wood-wash (n.) Alt. of Wood-waxen
Wood-wax (n.) Alt. of Wood-waxen
Wood-waxen (n.) Same as Woadwaxen.
Woodwork (n.) Work made of wood; that part of any structure which is wrought of wood.
Woodworm (n.) See Wood worm, under Wood.
Woody (a.) Abounding with wood or woods; as, woody land.
Woody (a.) Consisting of, or containing, wood or woody fiber; ligneous; as, the woody parts of plants.
Woody (a.) Of or pertaining to woods; sylvan.
Wooer (v. t.) One who wooes; one who courts or solicits in love; a suitor.
Woof (n.) The threads that cross the warp in a woven fabric; the weft; the filling; the thread usually carried by the shuttle in weaving.
Woof (n.) Texture; cloth; as, a pall of softest woof.
Woofell (n.) The European blackbird.
Woofy (a.) Having a close texture; dense; as, a woofy cloud.
Woohoo (n.) The sailfish.
Wooingly (adv.) In a wooing manner; enticingly; with persuasiveness.
Wook (imp.) Woke.
Wool (n.) The soft and curled, or crisped, species of hair which grows on sheep and some other animals, and which in fineness sometimes approaches to fur; -- chiefly applied to the fleecy coat of the sheep, which constitutes a most essential material of clothing in all cold and temperate climates.
Wool (n.) Short, thick hair, especially when crisped or curled.
Wool (n.) A sort of pubescence, or a clothing of dense, curling hairs on the surface of certain plants.
Woolded (imp. & p. p.) of Woold
Woolding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Woold
Woold (v. t.) To wind, or wrap; especially, to wind a rope round, as a mast or yard made of two or more pieces, at the place where it has been fished or scarfed, in order to strengthen it.
Woolder (n.) A stick used to tighten the rope in woolding.
Woolder (n.) One of the handles of the top, formed by a wooden pin passing through it. See 1st Top, 2.
Woolding (n.) The act of winding or wrapping anything with a rope, as a mast.
Woolding (n.) A rope used for binding masts and spars.
Wool-dyed (a.) Dyed before being made into cloth, in distinction from piece-dyed; ingrain.
Wooled (a.) Having (such) wool; as, a fine-wooled sheep.
Woolen (a.) Made of wool; consisting of wool; as, woolen goods.
Woolen (a.) Of or pertaining to wool or woolen cloths; as, woolen manufactures; a woolen mill; a woolen draper.
Woolen (n.) Cloth made of wool; woollen goods.
Woolenet (n.) A thin, light fabric of wool.
Woolert (n.) The barn owl.
Woolfell (n.) A skin with the wool; a skin from which the wool has not been sheared or pulled.
Woolgathering (a.) Indulging in a vagrant or idle exercise of the imagination; roaming upon a fruitless quest; idly fanciful.
Woolgathering (n.) Indulgence in idle imagination; a foolish or useless pursuit or design.
Woolgrower (n.) One who raises sheep for the production of wool.
Wool-hall (n.) A trade market in the woolen districts.
Woolhead (n.) The buffel duck.
Woolliness (n.) The quality or state of being woolly.
Woolly (a.) Consisting of wool; as, a woolly covering; a woolly fleece.
Woolly (a.) Resembling wool; of the nature of wool.
Woolly (a.) Clothed with wool.
Woolly (a.) Clothed with a fine, curly pubescence resembling wool.
Woolly-head (n.) A negro.
Woolmen (pl. ) of Woolman
Woolman (n.) One who deals in wool.
Woolpack (n.) A pack or bag of wool weighing two hundred and forty pounds.
Woolsack (n.) A sack or bag of wool; specifically, the seat of the lord chancellor of England in the House of Lords, being a large, square sack of wool resembling a divan in form.
Woolsey (n.) Linsey-woolsey.
Woolstock (n.) A heavy wooden hammer for milling cloth.
Woolward (adv.) In wool; with woolen raiment next the skin.
Woolward-going (n.) A wearing of woolen clothes next the skin as a matter of penance.
Woon (n.) Dwelling. See Wone.
Woorali (n.) Same as Curare.
Woosy (a.) Oozy; wet.
Wootz (n.) A species of steel imported from the East Indies, valued for making edge tools; Indian steel. It has in combination a minute portion of alumina and silica.
Wooyen (n.) See Yuen.
Wopen (p. p.) Wept.
Worble (n.) See Wormil.
Word (n.) The spoken sign of a conception or an idea; an articulate or vocal sound, or a combination of articulate and vocal sounds, uttered by the human voice, and by custom expressing an idea or ideas; a single component part of human speech or language; a constituent part of a sentence; a term; a vocable.
Word (n.) Hence, the written or printed character, or combination of characters, expressing such a term; as, the words on a page.
Word (n.) Talk; discourse; speech; language.
Word (n.) Account; tidings; message; communication; information; -- used only in the singular.
Word (n.) Signal; order; command; direction.
Word (n.) Language considered as implying the faith or authority of the person who utters it; statement; affirmation; declaration; promise.
Word (n.) Verbal contention; dispute.
Word (n.) A brief remark or observation; an expression; a phrase, clause, or short sentence.
Word (v. i.) To use words, as in discussion; to argue; to dispute.
Worded (imp. & p. p.) of Word
Wording (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Word
Word (v. t.) To express in words; to phrase.
Word (v. t.) To ply with words; also, to cause to be by the use of a word or words.
Word (v. t.) To flatter with words; to cajole.
Wordbook (n.) A collection of words; a vocabulary; a dictionary; a lexicon.
Word-catcher (n.) One who cavils at words.
Worder (n.) A speaker.
Wordily (adv.) In a wordy manner.
Wordiness (n.) The quality or state of being wordy, or abounding with words; verboseness.
Wording (n.) The act or manner of expressing in words; style of expression; phrasing.
Wordish (a.) Respecting words; full of words; wordy.
Wordle (n.) One of several pivoted pieces forming the throat of an adjustable die used in drawing wire, lead pipe, etc.
Wordless (a.) Not using words; not speaking; silent; speechless.
Wordsman (n.) One who deals in words, or in mere words; a verbalist.
Wordy (superl.) Of or pertaining to words; consisting of words; verbal; as, a wordy war.
Wordy (superl.) Using many words; verbose; as, a wordy speaker.
Wordy (superl.) Containing many words; full of words.
Wore () imp. of Wear.
Wore () imp. of Ware.
Work (n.) Exertion of strength or faculties; physical or intellectual effort directed to an end; industrial activity; toil; employment; sometimes, specifically, physically labor.
Work (n.) The matter on which one is at work; that upon which one spends labor; material for working upon; subject of exertion; the thing occupying one; business; duty; as, to take up one's work; to drop one's work.
Work (n.) That which is produced as the result of labor; anything accomplished by exertion or toil; product; performance; fabric; manufacture; in a more general sense, act, deed, service, effect, result, achievement, feat.
Work (n.) Specifically: (a) That which is produced by mental labor; a composition; a book; as, a work, or the works, of Addison. (b) Flowers, figures, or the like, wrought with the needle; embroidery.
Work (n.) Structures in civil, military, or naval engineering, as docks, bridges, embankments, trenches, fortifications, and the like; also, the structures and grounds of a manufacturing establishment; as, iron works; locomotive works; gas works.
Work (n.) The moving parts of a mechanism; as, the works of a watch.
Work (n.) Manner of working; management; treatment; as, unskillful work spoiled the effect.
Work (n.) The causing of motion against a resisting force. The amount of work is proportioned to, and is measured by, the product of the force into the amount of motion along the direction of the force. See Conservation of energy, under Conservation, Unit of work, under Unit, also Foot pound, Horse power, Poundal, and Erg.
Work (n.) Ore before it is dressed.
Work (n.) Performance of moral duties; righteous conduct.
Worked (imp. & p. p.) of Work
Wrought () of Work
Working (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Work
Work (n.) To exert one's self for a purpose; to put forth effort for the attainment of an object; to labor; to be engaged in the performance of a task, a duty, or the like.
Work (n.) Hence, in a general sense, to operate; to act; to perform; as, a machine works well.
Work (n.) Hence, figuratively, to be effective; to have effect or influence; to conduce.
Work (n.) To carry on business; to be engaged or employed customarily; to perform the part of a laborer; to labor; to toil.
Work (n.) To be in a state of severe exertion, or as if in such a state; to be tossed or agitated; to move heavily; to strain; to labor; as, a ship works in a heavy sea.
Work (n.) To make one's way slowly and with difficulty; to move or penetrate laboriously; to proceed with effort; -- with a following preposition, as down, out, into, up, through, and the like; as, scheme works out by degrees; to work into the earth.
Work (n.) To ferment, as a liquid.
Work (n.) To act or operate on the stomach and bowels, as a cathartic.
Work (v. t.) To labor or operate upon; to give exertion and effort to; to prepare for use, or to utilize, by labor.
Work (v. t.) To produce or form by labor; to bring forth by exertion or toil; to accomplish; to originate; to effect; as, to work wood or iron into a form desired, or into a utensil; to work cotton or wool into cloth.
Work (v. t.) To produce by slow degrees, or as if laboriously; to bring gradually into any state by action or motion.
Work (v. t.) To influence by acting upon; to prevail upon; to manage; to lead.
Work (v. t.) To form with a needle and thread or yarn; especially, to embroider; as, to work muslin.
Work (v. t.) To set in motion or action; to direct the action of; to keep at work; to govern; to manage; as, to work a machine.
Work (v. t.) To cause to ferment, as liquor.
Workable (a.) Capable of being worked, or worth working; as, a workable mine; workable clay.
Workaday (n.) See Workyday.
Workbag (n.) A bag for holding implements or materials for work; especially, a reticule, or bag for holding needlework, and the like.
Workbasket (n.) A basket for holding materials for needlework, or the like.
Workbench (n.) A bench on which work is performed, as in a carpenter's shop.
Workbox (n.) A box for holding instruments or materials for work.
Workday (n. & a.) A day on which work is performed, as distinguished from Sunday, festivals, etc., a working day.
Worker (n.) One who, or that which, works; a laborer; a performer; as, a worker in brass.
Worker (n.) One of the neuter, or sterile, individuals of the social ants, bees, and white ants. The workers are generally females having the sexual organs imperfectly developed. See Ant, and White ant, under White.
Workfellow (n.) One engaged in the same work with another; a companion in work.
Workfolk (n.) People that labor.
Workful (a.) Full of work; diligent.
Workhouses (pl. ) of Workhouse
Workhouse (n.) A house where any manufacture is carried on; a workshop.
Workhouse (n.) A house in which idle and vicious persons are confined to labor.
Workhouse (n.) A house where the town poor are maintained at public expense, and provided with labor; a poorhouse.
Working () a & n. from Work.
Working-day (a.) Pertaining to, or characteristic of, working days, or workdays; everyday; hence, plodding; hard-working.
Workingmen (pl. ) of Workingman
Workingman (n.) A laboring man; a man who earns his daily support by manual labor.
Workless (a.) Without work; not laboring; as, many people were still workless.
Workless (a.) Not carried out in practice; not exemplified in fact; as, workless faith.
Workmen (pl. ) of Workman
Workman (n.) A man employed in labor, whether in tillage or manufactures; a worker.
Workman (n.) Hence, especially, a skillful artificer or laborer.
Workmanlike (a.) Becoming a workman, especially a skillful one; skillful; well performed.
Workmanly (a.) Becoming a skillful workman; skillful; well performed; workmanlike.
Workmanly (adv.) In a skillful manner; in a manner becoming a skillful workman.
Workmanship (n.) The art or skill of a workman; the execution or manner of making anything.
Workmanship (n.) That which is effected, made, or produced; manufacture, something made by manual labor.
Workmaster (n.) The performer of any work; a master workman.
Workroom (n.) Any room or apartment used especially for labor.
Workship (n.) Workmanship.
Workshop (n.) A shop where any manufacture or handiwork is carried on.
Worktable (n.) A table for holding working materials and implements; esp., a small table with drawers and other conveniences for needlework, etc.
Workwomen (pl. ) of Workwoman
Workwoman (n.) A woman who performs any work; especially, a woman skilled in needlework.
Workyday (n.) A week day or working day, as distinguished from Sunday or a holiday. Also used adjectively.
World (n.) The earth and the surrounding heavens; the creation; the system of created things; existent creation; the universe.
World (n.) Any planet or heavenly body, especially when considered as inhabited, and as the scene of interests analogous with human interests; as, a plurality of worlds.
World (n.) The earth and its inhabitants, with their concerns; the sum of human affairs and interests.
World (n.) In a more restricted sense, that part of the earth and its concerns which is known to any one, or contemplated by any one; a division of the globe, or of its inhabitants; human affairs as seen from a certain position, or from a given point of view; also, state of existence; scene of life and action; as, the Old World; the New World; the religious world; the Catholic world; the upper world; the future world; the heathen world.
World (n.) The customs, practices, and interests of men; general affairs of life; human society; public affairs and occupations; as, a knowledge of the world.
World (n.) Individual experience of, or concern with, life; course of life; sum of the affairs which affect the individual; as, to begin the world with no property; to lose all, and begin the world anew.
World (n.) The inhabitants of the earth; the human race; people in general; the public; mankind.
World (n.) The earth and its affairs as distinguished from heaven; concerns of this life as distinguished from those of the life to come; the present existence and its interests; hence, secular affairs; engrossment or absorption in the affairs of this life; worldly corruption; the ungodly or wicked part of mankind.
World (n.) As an emblem of immensity, a great multitude or quantity; a large number.
Worldliness (n.) The quality of being worldly; a predominant passion for obtaining the good things of this life; covetousness; addictedness to gain and temporal enjoyments; worldly-mindedness.
Worldling () A person whose soul is set upon gaining temporal possessions; one devoted to this world and its enjoyments.
Worldly (a.) Relating to the world; human; common; as, worldly maxims; worldly actions.
Worldly (a.) Pertaining to this world or life, in contradistinction from the life to come; secular; temporal; devoted to this life and its enjoyments; bent on gain; as, worldly pleasures, affections, honor, lusts, men.
Worldly (a.) Lay, as opposed to clerical.
Worldly (adv.) With relation to this life; in a worldly manner.
Worldly-minded (a.) Devoted to worldly interests; mindful of the affairs of the present life, and forgetful of those of the future; loving and pursuing this world's goods, to the exclusion of piety and attention to spiritual concerns.
World-wide (a.) Extended throughout the world; as, world-wide fame.
Worldlywise (a.) Wise in regard to things of this world.
Worm (n.) A creeping or a crawling animal of any kind or size, as a serpent, caterpillar, snail, or the like.
Worm (n.) Any small creeping animal or reptile, either entirely without feet, or with very short ones, including a great variety of animals; as, an earthworm; the blindworm.
Worm (n.) Any helminth; an entozoon.
Worm (n.) Any annelid.
Worm (n.) An insect larva.
Worm (n.) Same as Vermes.
Worm (n.) An internal tormentor; something that gnaws or afflicts one's mind with remorse.
Worm (n.) A being debased and despised.
Worm (n.) Anything spiral, vermiculated, or resembling a worm
Worm (n.) The thread of a screw.
Worm (n.) A spiral instrument or screw, often like a double corkscrew, used for drawing balls from firearms.
Worm (n.) A certain muscular band in the tongue of some animals, as the dog; the lytta. See Lytta.
Worm (n.) The condensing tube of a still, often curved and wound to economize space. See Illust. of Still.
Worm (n.) A short revolving screw, the threads of which drive, or are driven by, a worm wheel by gearing into its teeth or cogs. See Illust. of Worm gearing, below.
Wormed (imp. & p. p.) of Worm
Worming (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Worm
Worm (v. i.) To work slowly, gradually, and secretly.
Worm (v. t.) To effect, remove, drive, draw, or the like, by slow and secret means; -- often followed by out.
Worm (v. t.) To clean by means of a worm; to draw a wad or cartridge from, as a firearm. See Worm, n. 5 (b).
Worm (n.) To cut the worm, or lytta, from under the tongue of, as a dog, for the purpose of checking a disposition to gnaw. The operation was formerly supposed to guard against canine madness.
Worm (n.) To wind rope, yarn, or other material, spirally round, between the strands of, as a cable; to wind with spun yarn, as a small rope.
Wormal (n.) See Wormil.
Worm-eaten (a.) Eaten, or eaten into, by a worm or by worms; as, worm-eaten timber.
Worm-eaten (a.) Worn-out; old; worthless.
Wormed (a.) Penetrated by worms; injured by worms; worm-eaten; as, wormed timber.
Wormhole (n.) A burrow made by a worm.
Wormian (a.) Discovered or described by Olanus Wormius, a Danish anatomist.
Wormil (n.) Any botfly larva which burrows in or beneath the skin of domestic and wild animals, thus producing sores. They belong to various species of Hypoderma and allied genera. Domestic cattle are often infested by a large species. See Gadfly. Called also warble, and worble.
Wormil (n.) See 1st Warble, 1 (b).
Wormling (n.) A little worm.
Wormseed (n.) Any one of several plants, as Artemisia santonica, and Chenopodium anthelminticum, whose seeds have the property of expelling worms from the stomach and intestines.
Worm-shaped (a.) Shaped like a worm; /hick and almost cylindrical, but variously curved or bent; as, a worm-shaped root.
Worm-shell (n.) Any species of Vermetus.
Wormul (n.) See Wornil.
Wormwood (n.) A composite plant (Artemisia Absinthium), having a bitter and slightly aromatic taste, formerly used as a tonic and a vermifuge, and to protect woolen garments from moths. It gives the peculiar flavor to the cordial called absinthe. The volatile oil is a narcotic poison. The term is often extended to other species of the same genus.
Wormwood (n.) Anything very bitter or grievous; bitterness.
Wormy (superl.) Containing a worm; abounding with worms.
Wormy (superl.) Like or pertaining to a worm; earthy; groveling.
Worn () p. p. of Wear.
Wornil (n.) See Wormil.
Worn-out (a.) Consumed, or rendered useless, by wearing; as, worn-out garments.
Worral (n.) Alt. of Worrel
Worrel (n.) An Egyptian fork-tongued lizard, about four feet long when full grown.
Worrier (n.) One who worries.
Worriment (n.) Trouble; anxiety; worry.
Worrisome (a.) Inclined to worry or fret; also, causing worry or annoyance.
Worrit (v. t.) To worry; to annoy.
Worrit (n.) Worry; anxiety.
Worried (imp. & p. p.) of Worry
Worrying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Worry
Worry (v. t.) To harass by pursuit and barking; to attack repeatedly; also, to tear or mangle with the teeth.
Worry (v. t.) To harass or beset with importunity, or with care an anxiety; to vex; to annoy; to torment; to tease; to fret; to trouble; to plague.
Worry (v. t.) To harass with labor; to fatigue.
Worry (v. i.) To feel or express undue care and anxiety; to manifest disquietude or pain; to be fretful; to chafe; as, the child worries; the horse worries.
Worries (pl. ) of Worry
Worry (n.) A state of undue solicitude; a state of disturbance from care and anxiety; vexation; anxiety; fret; as, to be in a worry.
Worryingly (adv.) In a worrying manner.
Worse (compar.) Bad, ill, evil, or corrupt, in a greater degree; more bad or evil; less good; specifically, in poorer health; more sick; -- used both in a physical and moral sense.
Worse (n.) Loss; disadvantage; defeat.
Worse (n.) That which is worse; something less good; as, think not the worse of him for his enterprise.
Worse (a.) In a worse degree; in a manner more evil or bad.
Worse (v. t.) To make worse; to put disadvantage; to discomfit; to worst. See Worst, v.
Worsen (v. t.) To make worse; to deteriorate; to impair.
Worsen (v. t.) To get the better of; to worst.
Worsen (v. i.) To grow or become worse.
Worser (a.) Worse.
Worship (a.) Excellence of character; dignity; worth; worthiness.
Worship (a.) Honor; respect; civil deference.
Worship (a.) Hence, a title of honor, used in addresses to certain magistrates and others of rank or station.
Worship (a.) The act of paying divine honors to the Supreme Being; religious reverence and homage; adoration, or acts of reverence, paid to God, or a being viewed as God.
Worship (a.) Obsequious or submissive respect; extravagant admiration; adoration.
Worship (a.) An object of worship.
Worshiped (imp. & p. p.) of Worship
Worshipped () of Worship
Worshiping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Worship
Worshipping () of Worship
Worship (v. t.) To respect; to honor; to treat with civil reverence.
Worship (v. t.) To pay divine honors to; to reverence with supreme respect and veneration; to perform religious exercises in honor of; to adore; to venerate.
Worship (v. t.) To honor with extravagant love and extreme submission, as a lover; to adore; to idolize.
Worship (v. i.) To perform acts of homage or adoration; esp., to perform religious service.
Worshipability (n.) The quality of being worthy to be worshiped.
Worshipable (a.) Capable of being worshiped; worthy of worship.
Worshiper (n.) One who worships; one who pays divine honors to any being or thing; one who adores.
Worshipful (a.) Entitled to worship, reverence, or high respect; claiming respect; worthy of honor; -- often used as a term of respect, sometimes ironically.
Worst (a.) Bad, evil, or pernicious, in the highest degree, whether in a physical or moral sense. See Worse.
Worst (n.) That which is most bad or evil; the most severe, pernicious, calamitous, or wicked state or degree.
Worsted (imp. & p. p.) of Worst
Worsting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Worst
Worst (a.) To gain advantage over, in contest or competition; to get the better of; to defeat; to overthrow; to discomfit.
Worst (v. i.) To grow worse; to deteriorate.
Worsted (n.) Well-twisted yarn spun of long-staple wool which has been combed to lay the fibers parallel, used for carpets, cloth, hosiery, gloves, and the like.
Worsted (n.) Fine and soft woolen yarn, untwisted or lightly twisted, used in knitting and embroidery.
Wort (n.) A plant of any kind.
Wort (n.) Cabbages.
Wort (n.) An infusion of malt which is unfermented, or is in the act of fermentation; the sweet infusion of malt, which ferments and forms beer; hence, any similar liquid in a state of incipient fermentation.
Worth (v. i.) To be; to become; to betide; -- now used only in the phrases, woe worth the day, woe worth the man, etc., in which the verb is in the imperative, and the nouns day, man, etc., are in the dative. Woe be to the day, woe be to the man, etc., are equivalent phrases.
Worth (a.) Valuable; of worthy; estimable; also, worth while.
Worth (a.) Equal in value to; furnishing an equivalent for; proper to be exchanged for.
Worth (a.) Deserving of; -- in a good or bad sense, but chiefly in a good sense.
Worth (a.) Having possessions equal to; having wealth or estate to the value of.
Worth (a.) That quality of a thing which renders it valuable or useful; sum of valuable qualities which render anything useful and sought; value; hence, often, value as expressed in a standard, as money; equivalent in exchange; price.
Worth (a.) Value in respect of moral or personal qualities; excellence; virtue; eminence; desert; merit; usefulness; as, a man or magistrate of great worth.
Worthful (a.) Full of worth; worthy; deserving.
Worthily (adv.) In a worthy manner; excellently; deservedly; according to merit; justly; suitably; becomingly.
Worthiness (n.) The quality or state of being worthy; desert; merit; excellence; dignity; virtue; worth.
Worthless (a.) Destitute of worth; having no value, virtue, excellence, dignity, or the like; undeserving; valueless; useless; vile; mean; as, a worthless garment; a worthless ship; a worthless man or woman; a worthless magistrate.
worthwhile (adj.) Worth the time or effort spent.
Worthy (n.) Having worth or excellence; possessing merit; valuable; deserving; estimable; excellent; virtuous.
Worthy (n.) Having suitable, adapted, or equivalent qualities or value; -- usually with of before the thing compared or the object; more rarely, with a following infinitive instead of of, or with that; as, worthy of, equal in excellence, value, or dignity to; entitled to; meriting; -- usually in a good sense, but sometimes in a bad one.
Worthy (n.) Of high station; of high social position.
Worthies (pl. ) of Worthy
Worthy (n.) A man of eminent worth or value; one distinguished for useful and estimable qualities; a person of conspicuous desert; -- much used in the plural; as, the worthies of the church; political worthies; military worthies.
Worthy (v. t.) To render worthy; to exalt into a hero.
Wost () 2d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know.
Wot () 1st & 3d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know. See the Note under Wit, v.
Wotest () Alt. of Wottest
Wottest () 2d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know.
Woteth () Alt. of Wotteth
Wotteth () 3d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know.
Woul (v. i.) To howl.
Would (v. t.) Commonly used as an auxiliary verb, either in the past tense or in the conditional or optative present. See 2d & 3d Will.
Would (n.) See 2d Weld.
Would-be (a.) Desiring or professing to be; vainly pretending to be; as, a would-be poet.
Woulding (n.) Emotion of desire; inclination; velleity.
Wouldingness (n.) Willingness; desire.
Woulfe bottle (n.) A kind of wash bottle with two or three necks; -- so called after the inventor, Peter Woulfe, an English chemist.
Wound () imp. & p. p. of Wind to twist, and Wind to sound by blowing.
Wound (n.) A hurt or injury caused by violence; specifically, a breach of the skin and flesh of an animal, or in the substance of any creature or living thing; a cut, stab, rent, or the like.
Wound (n.) Fig.: An injury, hurt, damage, detriment, or the like, to feeling, faculty, reputation, etc.
Wound (n.) An injury to the person by which the skin is divided, or its continuity broken; a lesion of the body, involving some solution of continuity.
Wounded (imp. & p. p.) of Wound
Wounding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wound
Wound (n.) To hurt by violence; to produce a breach, or separation of parts, in, as by a cut, stab, blow, or the like.
Wound (n.) To hurt the feelings of; to pain by disrespect, ingratitude, or the like; to cause injury to.
Woundable (a.) Capable of being wounded; vulnerable.
Wounder (n.) One who, or that which, wounds.
Woundily (adv.) In a woundy manner; excessively; woundy.
Woundless (a.) Free from wound or hurt; exempt from being wounded; invulnerable.
Woundwort (n.) Any one of certain plants whose soft, downy leaves have been used for dressing wounds, as the kidney vetch, and several species of the labiate genus Stachys.
Woundy (a.) Excessive.
Woundy (adv.) Excessively; extremely.
Wourali (n.) Same as Curare.
Wou-wou (n.) The agile, or silvery, gibbon; -- called also camper. See Gibbon.
Wove () p. pr. & rare vb. n. of Weave.
Woven () p. p. of Weave.
Wowe (v. t. & i.) To woo.
Wowf (a.) Disordered or unsettled in intellect; deranged.
Wowke (n.) Week.
Wow-wow (n.) See Wou-wou.
Wox () imp. of Wax.
Woxen () p. p. of Wax.
Wrack (n.) A thin, flying cloud; a rack.
Wrack (v. t.) To rack; to torment.
Wrack (n.) Wreck; ruin; destruction.
Wrack (n.) Any marine vegetation cast up on the shore, especially plants of the genera Fucus, Laminaria, and Zostera, which are most abundant on northern shores.
Wrack (n.) Coarse seaweed of any kind.
Wrack (v. t.) To wreck.
Wrackful (a.) Ruinous; destructive.
Wrain-bolt (n.) Same as Wringbolt.
Wraith (n.) An apparition of a person in his exact likeness, seen before death, or a little after; hence, an apparition; a specter; a vision; an unreal image.
Wraith (n.) Sometimes, improperly, a spirit thought to preside over the waters; -- called also water wraith.
Wrangled (imp. & p. p.) of Wrangle
Wrangling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wrangle
Wrangle (v. i.) To argue; to debate; to dispute.
Wrangle (v. i.) To dispute angrily; to quarrel peevishly and noisily; to brawl; to altercate.
Wrangle (v. t.) To involve in a quarrel or dispute; to embroil.
Wrangle (n.) An angry dispute; a noisy quarrel; a squabble; an altercation.
Wrangler (n.) An angry disputant; one who disputes with heat or peevishness.
Wrangler (n.) One of those who stand in the first rank of honors in the University of Cambridge, England. They are called, according to their rank, senior wrangler, second wrangler, third wrangler, etc. Cf. Optime.
Wranglership (n.) The honor or position of being a wrangler at the University of Cambridge, England.
Wranglesome (a.) Contentious; quarrelsome.
Wrannock (n.) Alt. of Wranny
Wranny (n.) The common wren.
Wrap (v. t.) To snatch up; transport; -- chiefly used in the p. p. wrapt.
Wrapped (imp. & p. p.) of Wrap
Wrapt () of Wrap
Wrapping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wrap
Wrap (v. t.) To wind or fold together; to arrange in folds.
Wrap (v. t.) To cover by winding or folding; to envelop completely; to involve; to infold; -- often with up.
Wrap (v. t.) To conceal by enveloping or infolding; to hide; hence, to involve, as an effect or consequence; to be followed by.
Wrap (n.) A wrapper; -- often used in the plural for blankets, furs, shawls, etc., used in riding or traveling.
Wrappage (n.) The act of wrapping.
Wrappage (n.) That which wraps; envelope; covering.
Wrapper (n.) One who, or that which, wraps.
Wrapper (n.) That in which anything is wrapped, or inclosed; envelope; covering.
Wrapper (n.) Specifically, a loose outer garment; an article of dress intended to be wrapped round the person; as, a morning wrapper; a gentleman's wrapper.
Wraprascal (n.) A kind of coarse upper coat, or overcoat, formerly worn.
Wrasse (n.) Any one of numerous edible, marine, spiny-finned fishes of the genus Labrus, of which several species are found in the Mediterranean and on the Atlantic coast of Europe. Many of the species are bright-colored.
Wrastle (v. i.) To wrestle.
Wrath (a.) Violent anger; vehement exasperation; indignation; rage; fury; ire.
Wrath (a.) The effects of anger or indignation; the just punishment of an offense or a crime.
Wrath (a.) See Wroth.
Wrath (v. t.) To anger; to enrage; -- also used impersonally.
Wrathful (a.) Full of wrath; very angry; greatly incensed; ireful; passionate; as, a wrathful man.
Wrathful (a.) Springing from, or expressing, wrath; as, a wrathful countenance.
Wrathily (adv.) In a wrathy manner; very angrily; wrathfully.
Wrathless (a.) Free from anger or wrath.
Wrathy (a.) Very angry.
Wraw (a.) Angry; vexed; wrathful.
Wrawful (a.) Ill-tempered.
Wrawl (v. i.) To cry, as a cat; to waul.
Wrawness (n.) Peevishness; ill temper; anger.
Wray (v. t.) To reveal; to disclose.
Wreak (v. i.) To reck; to care.
Wreaked (imp. & p. p.) of Wreak
Wreaking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wreak
Wreak (v. t.) To revenge; to avenge.
Wreak (v. t.) To execute in vengeance or passion; to inflict; to hurl or drive; as, to wreak vengeance on an enemy.
Wreak (v. t.) Revenge; vengeance; furious passion; resentment.
Wreaken () p. p. of Wreak.
Wreaker (n.) Avenger.
Wreakful (a.) Revengeful; angry; furious.
Wreakless (a.) Unrevengeful; weak.
Wreaths (pl. ) of Wreath
Wreath (n.) Something twisted, intertwined, or curled; as, a wreath of smoke; a wreath of flowers.
Wreath (n.) A garland; a chaplet, esp. one given to a victor.
Wreath (n.) An appendage to the shield, placed above it, and supporting the crest (see Illust. of Crest). It generally represents a twist of two cords of silk, one tinctured like the principal metal, the other like the principal color in the arms.
Wreathed (imp.) of Wreathe
Wreathed (p. p.) of Wreathe
Wreathen (Archaic) of Wreathe
Wreathing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wreathe
Wreathe (n.) To cause to revolve or writhe; to twist about; to turn.
Wreathe (n.) To twist; to convolve; to wind one about another; to entwine.
Wreathe (n.) To surround with anything twisted or convolved; to encircle; to infold.
Wreathe (n.) To twine or twist about; to surround; to encircle.
Wreathe (v. i.) To be intewoven or entwined; to twine together; as, a bower of wreathing trees.
Wreathen (a.) Twisted; made into a wreath.
Wreathless (a.) Destitute of a wreath.
Wreath-shell (n.) A marine shell of the genus Turbo. See Turbo.
Wreathy (a.) Wreathed; twisted; curled; spiral; also, full of wreaths.
Wrecche (n.) A wretch.
Wrecche (a.) Wretched.
Wreche (n.) Wreak.
Wreck (v. t. & n.) See 2d & 3d Wreak.
Wreck (v. t.) The destruction or injury of a vessel by being cast on shore, or on rocks, or by being disabled or sunk by the force of winds or waves; shipwreck.
Wreck (v. t.) Destruction or injury of anything, especially by violence; ruin; as, the wreck of a railroad train.
Wreck (v. t.) The ruins of a ship stranded; a ship dashed against rocks or land, and broken, or otherwise rendered useless, by violence and fracture; as, they burned the wreck.
Wreck (v. t.) The remain of anything ruined or fatally injured.
Wreck (v. t.) Goods, etc., which, after a shipwreck, are cast upon the land by the sea.
Wrecked (imp. & p. p.) of Wreck
Wrecking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wreck
Wreck (v. t.) To destroy, disable, or seriously damage, as a vessel, by driving it against the shore or on rocks, by causing it to become unseaworthy, to founder, or the like; to shipwreck.
Wreck (v. t.) To bring wreck or ruin upon by any kind of violence; to destroy, as a railroad train.
Wreck (v. t.) To involve in a wreck; hence, to cause to suffer ruin; to balk of success, and bring disaster on.
Wreck (v. i.) To suffer wreck or ruin.
Wreck (v. i.) To work upon a wreck, as in saving property or lives, or in plundering.
Wreckage (n.) The act of wrecking, or state of being wrecked.
Wreckage (n.) That which has been wrecked; remains of a wreck.
Wrecker (n.) One who causes a wreck, as by false lights, and the like.
Wrecker (n.) One who searches fro, or works upon, the wrecks of vessels, etc. Specifically: (a) One who visits a wreck for the purpose of plunder. (b) One who is employed in saving property or lives from a wrecked vessel, or in saving the vessel; as, the wreckers of Key West.
Wrecker (n.) A vessel employed by wreckers.
Wreckfish (n.) A stone bass.
Wreckful (a.) Causing wreck; involving ruin; destructive.
Wrecking () a. & n. from Wreck, v.
Wreck-master (n.) A person appointed by law to take charge of goods, etc., thrown on shore after a shipwreck.
Wreke (v. t.) Alt. of Wreeke
Wreeke (v. t.) See 2d Wreak.
Wren (n.) Any one of numerous species of small singing birds belonging to Troglodytes and numerous allied of the family Troglodytidae.
Wren (n.) Any one of numerous species of small singing birds more or less resembling the true wrens in size and habits.
Wrench (v. t.) Trick; deceit; fraud; stratagem.
Wrench (v. t.) A violent twist, or a pull with twisting.
Wrench (v. t.) A sprain; an injury by twisting, as in a joint.
Wrench (v. t.) Means; contrivance.
Wrench (v. t.) An instrument, often a simple bar or lever with jaws or an angular orifice either at the end or between the ends, for exerting a twisting strain, as in turning bolts, nuts, screw taps, etc.; a screw key. Many wrenches have adjustable jaws for grasping nuts, etc., of different sizes.
Wrench (v. t.) The system made up of a force and a couple of forces in a plane perpendicular to that force. Any number of forces acting at any points upon a rigid body may be compounded so as to be equivalent to a wrench.
Wrenched (imp. & p. p.) of Wrench
Wrenching (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wrench
Wrench (n.) To pull with a twist; to wrest, twist, or force by violence.
Wrench (n.) To strain; to sprain; hence, to distort; to pervert.
Wrested (imp. & p. p.) of Wrest
Wresting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wrest
Wrest (v. t.) To turn; to twist; esp., to twist or extort by violence; to pull of force away by, or as if by, violent wringing or twisting.
Wrest (v. t.) To turn from truth; to twist from its natural or proper use or meaning by violence; to pervert; to distort.
Wrest (v. t.) To tune with a wrest, or key.
Wrest (n.) The act of wresting; a wrench; a violent twist; hence, distortion; perversion.
Wrest (n.) Active or moving power.
Wrest (n.) A key to tune a stringed instrument of music.
Wrest (n.) A partition in a water wheel, by which the form of the buckets is determined.
Wrester (n.) One who wrests.
Wrestled (imp. & p. p.) of Wrestle
Wrestling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wrestle
Wrestle (v. t.) To contend, by grappling with, and striving to trip or throw down, an opponent; as, they wrestled skillfully.
Wrestle (v. t.) Hence, to struggle; to strive earnestly; to contend.
Wrestle (v. t.) To wrestle with; to seek to throw down as in wrestling.
Wrestle (n.) A struggle between two persons to see which will throw the other down; a bout at wrestling; a wrestling match; a struggle.
Wrestler (n.) One who wrestles; one who is skillful in wrestling.
Wretch (v. t.) A miserable person; one profoundly unhappy.
Wretch (v. t.) One sunk in vice or degradation; a base, despicable person; a vile knave; as, a profligate wretch.
Wretched (a.) Very miserable; sunk in, or accompanied by, deep affliction or distress, as from want, anxiety, or grief; calamitous; woeful; very afflicting.
Wretched (a.) Worthless; paltry; very poor or mean; miserable; as, a wretched poem; a wretched cabin.
Wretched (a.) Hatefully contemptible; despicable; wicked.
Wretchedly (adv.) In a wretched manner; miserably; despicable.
Wretchedness (n.) The quality or state of being wretched; utter misery.
Wretchedness (n.) A wretched object; anything despicably.
Wretchful (a.) Wretched.
Wretchless (a.) Reckless; hence, disregarded.
Wrey (v. t.) See Wray.
Wrie (a. & v.) See Wry.
Wrig (v. i.) To wriggle.
Wriggled (imp. & p. p.) of Wriggle
Wriggling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wriggle
Wriggle (v. i.) To move the body to and fro with short, writhing motions, like a worm; to squirm; to twist uneasily or quickly about.
Wriggle (v. t.) To move with short, quick contortions; to move by twisting and squirming; like a worm.
Wriggle (a.) Wriggling; frisky; pliant; flexible.
Wriggler (n.) One who, or that which, wriggles.
Wright (n.) One who is engaged in a mechanical or manufacturing business; an artificer; a workman; a manufacturer; a mechanic; esp., a worker in wood; -- now chiefly used in compounds, as in millwright, wheelwright, etc.
Wrightine (n.) A rare alkaloid found in the bark of an East Indian apocynaceous tree (Wrightia antidysenterica), and extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance. It was formerly used as a remedy for diarrh/a. Called also conessine, and neriine.
Wrung (imp. & p. p.) of Wring
Wringed () of Wring
Wringing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wring
Wring (v. t.) To twist and compress; to turn and strain with violence; to writhe; to squeeze hard; to pinch; as, to wring clothes in washing.
Wring (v. t.) Hence, to pain; to distress; to torment; to torture.
Wring (v. t.) To distort; to pervert; to wrest.
Wring (v. t.) To extract or obtain by twisting and compressing; to squeeze or press (out); hence, to extort; to draw forth by violence, or against resistance or repugnance; -- usually with out or form.
Wring (v. t.) To subject to extortion; to afflict, or oppress, in order to enforce compliance.
Wring (v. t.) To bend or strain out of its position; as, to wring a mast.
Wring (v. i.) To writhe; to twist, as with anguish.
Wring (n.) A writhing, as in anguish; a twisting; a griping.
Wringbolt (n.) A bolt used by shipwrights, to bend and secure the planks against the timbers till they are fastened by bolts, spikes, or treenails; -- not to be confounded with ringbolt.
Wringer (n.) One who, or that which, wrings; hence, an extortioner.
Wringer (n.) A machine for pressing water out of anything, particularly from clothes after they have been washed.
Wringing () a. & n. from Wring, v.
Wringstaves (pl. ) of Wringstaff
Wringstaff (n.) A strong piece of plank used in applying wringbolts.
Wrinkle (n.) A winkle.
Wrinkle (n.) A small ridge, prominence, or furrow formed by the shrinking or contraction of any smooth substance; a corrugation; a crease; a slight fold; as, wrinkle in the skin; a wrinkle in cloth.
Wrinkle (n.) hence, any roughness; unevenness.
Wrinkle (n.) A notion or fancy; a whim; as, to have a new wrinkle.
Wrinkled (imp. & p. p.) of Wrinkle
Wrinkling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wrinkle
Wrinkle (v. t.) To contract into furrows and prominences; to make a wrinkle or wrinkles in; to corrugate; as, wrinkle the skin or the brow.
Wrinkle (v. t.) Hence, to make rough or uneven in any way.
Wrinkle (v. i.) To shrink into furrows and ridges.
Wrinkly (a.) Full of wrinkles; having a tendency to be wrinkled; corrugated; puckered.
Wrist (n.) The joint, or the region of the joint, between the hand and the arm; the carpus. See Carpus.
Wrist (n.) A stud or pin which forms a journal; -- also called wrist pin.
Wristband (n.) The band of the sleeve of a shirt, or other garment, which covers the wrist.
Wrister (n.) A covering for the wrist.
Wristlet (n.) An elastic band worn around the wrist, as for the purpose of securing the upper part of a glove.
Writ (obs.) 3d pers. sing. pres. of Write, for writeth.
Writ () imp. & p. p. of Write.
Writ (n.) That which is written; writing; scripture; -- applied especially to the Scriptures, or the books of the Old and New testaments; as, sacred writ.
Writ (n.) An instrument in writing, under seal, in an epistolary form, issued from the proper authority, commanding the performance or nonperformance of some act by the person to whom it is directed; as, a writ of entry, of error, of execution, of injunction, of mandamus, of return, of summons, and the like.
Writability (n.) Ability or capacity to write.
Writable (a.) Capable of, or suitable for, being written down.
Writative (a.) Inclined to much writing; -- correlative to talkative.
Wrote (imp.) of Write
Written (p. p.) of Write
Writ (Archaic imp. & p. p.) of Write
Writing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Write
Write (v. t.) To set down, as legible characters; to form the conveyance of meaning; to inscribe on any material by a suitable instrument; as, to write the characters called letters; to write figures.
Write (v. t.) To set down for reading; to express in legible or intelligible characters; to inscribe; as, to write a deed; to write a bill of divorcement; hence, specifically, to set down in an epistle; to communicate by letter.
Write (v. t.) Hence, to compose or produce, as an author.
Write (v. t.) To impress durably; to imprint; to engrave; as, truth written on the heart.
Write (v. t.) To make known by writing; to record; to prove by one's own written testimony; -- often used reflexively.
Write (v. i.) To form characters, letters, or figures, as representative of sounds or ideas; to express words and sentences by written signs.
Write (v. i.) To be regularly employed or occupied in writing, copying, or accounting; to act as clerk or amanuensis; as, he writes in one of the public offices.
Write (v. i.) To frame or combine ideas, and express them in written words; to play the author; to recite or relate in books; to compose.
Write (v. i.) To compose or send letters.
Writer (n.) One who writes, or has written; a scribe; a clerk.
Writer (n.) One who is engaged in literary composition as a profession; an author; as, a writer of novels.
Writer (n.) A clerk of a certain rank in the service of the late East India Company, who, after serving a certain number of years, became a factor.
Writership (n.) The office of a writer.
Writhed (imp.) of Writhe
Writhed (p. p.) of Writhe
Writhen () of Writhe
Writhing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Writhe
Writhe (v. t.) To twist; to turn; now, usually, to twist or turn so as to distort; to wring.
Writhe (v. t.) To wrest; to distort; to pervert.
Writhe (v. t.) To extort; to wring; to wrest.
Writhe (v. i.) To twist or contort the body; to be distorted; as, to writhe with agony. Also used figuratively.
Writhen (a.) Having a twisted distorted from.
Writhle (v. t.) To wrinkle.
Writing (n.) The act or art of forming letters and characters on paper, wood, stone, or other material, for the purpose of recording the ideas which characters and words express, or of communicating them to others by visible signs.
Writing (n.) Anything written or printed; anything expressed in characters or letters
Writing (n.) Any legal instrument, as a deed, a receipt, a bond, an agreement, or the like.
Writing (n.) Any written composition; a pamphlet; a work; a literary production; a book; as, the writings of Addison.
Writing (n.) An inscription.
Writing (n.) Handwriting; chirography.
Written () p. p. of Write, v.
Wrizzle (v. t.) To wrinkle.
Wroken () p. p. of Wreak.
Wrong () imp. of Wring. Wrung.
Wrong (a.) Twisted; wry; as, a wrong nose.
Wrong (a.) Not according to the laws of good morals, whether divine or human; not suitable to the highest and best end; not morally right; deviating from rectitude or duty; not just or equitable; not true; not legal; as, a wrong practice; wrong ideas; wrong inclinations and desires.
Wrong (a.) Not fit or suitable to an end or object; not appropriate for an intended use; not according to rule; unsuitable; improper; incorrect; as, to hold a book with the wrong end uppermost; to take the wrong way.
Wrong (a.) Not according to truth; not conforming to fact or intent; not right; mistaken; erroneous; as, a wrong statement.
Wrong (a.) Designed to be worn or placed inward; as, the wrong side of a garment or of a piece of cloth.
Wrong (adv.) In a wrong manner; not rightly; amiss; morally ill; erroneously; wrongly.
Wrong (a.) That which is not right.
Wrong (a.) Nonconformity or disobedience to lawful authority, divine or human; deviation from duty; -- the opposite of moral right.
Wrong (a.) Deviation or departure from truth or fact; state of falsity; error; as, to be in the wrong.
Wrong (a.) Whatever deviates from moral rectitude; usually, an act that involves evil consequences, as one which inflicts injury on a person; any injury done to, or received from; another; a trespass; a violation of right.
Wronged (imp. & p. p.) of Wrong
Wronging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wrong
Wrong (v. t.) To treat with injustice; to deprive of some right, or to withhold some act of justice from; to do undeserved harm to; to deal unjustly with; to injure.
Wrong (v. t.) To impute evil to unjustly; as, if you suppose me capable of a base act, you wrong me.
Wrongdoer (n.) One who injures another, or who does wrong.
Wrongdoer (n.) One who commits a tort or trespass; a trespasser; a tort feasor.
Wrongdoing (n.) Evil or wicked behavior or action.
Wronger (n.) One who wrongs or injures another.
Wrongful (a.) Full of wrong; injurious; unjust; unfair; as, a wrongful taking of property; wrongful dealing.
Wronghead (n.) A person of a perverse understanding or obstinate character.
Wronghead (a.) Wrongheaded.
Wrongheaded (a.) Wrong in opinion or principle; having a perverse understanding; perverse.
Wrongless (a.) Not wrong; void or free from wrong.
Wrongly (adv.) In a wrong manner; unjustly; erroneously; wrong; amiss; as, he judges wrongly of my motives.
Wrongness (n.) The quality or state of being wrong; wrongfulness; error; fault.
Wrongous (a.) Constituting, or of the nature of, a wrong; unjust; wrongful.
Wrongous (a.) Not right; illegal; as, wrongous imprisonment.
Wrong-timed (a.) Done at an improper time; ill-timed.
Wroot () imp. of Write. Wrote.
Wrote (v. i.) To root with the snout. See 1st Root.
Wrote () imp. & archaic p. p. of Write.
Wroth (a.) Full of wrath; angry; incensed; much exasperated; wrathful.
Wrought () imp. & p. p. of Work.
Wrought (a.) Worked; elaborated; not rough or crude.
Wrung () imp. & p. p. of Wring.
Wry (v. t.) To cover.
Wry (superl.) Turned to one side; twisted; distorted; as, a wry mouth.
Wry (superl.) Hence, deviating from the right direction; misdirected; out of place; as, wry words.
Wry (superl.) Wrested; perverted.
Wry (v. i.) To twist; to writhe; to bend or wind.
Wry (v. i.) To deviate from the right way; to go away or astray; to turn side; to swerve.
Wried (imp. & p. p.) of Wry
Wrying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Wry
Wry (a.) To twist; to distort; to writhe; to wrest; to vex.
Wrybill (n.) See Crookbill.
Wrymouth (n.) Any one of several species of large, elongated, marine fishes of the genus Cryptacanthodes, especially C. maculatus of the American coast. A whitish variety is called ghostfish.
Wryneck (n.) A twisted or distorted neck; a deformity in which the neck is drawn to one side by a rigid contraction of one of the muscles of the neck; torticollis.
Wryneck (n.) Any one of several species of Old World birds of the genus Jynx, allied to the woodpeckers; especially, the common European species (J. torguilla); -- so called from its habit of turning the neck around in different directions. Called also cuckoo's mate, snakebird, summer bird, tonguebird, and writheneck.
Wrynecked (a.) Having a distorted neck; having the deformity called wryneck.
Wryness (n.) The quality or state of being wry, or distorted.
Wrythen (p. p.) Writhen.
Wulfenite (n.) Native lead molybdate occurring in tetragonal crystals, usually tabular, and of a bright orange-yellow to red, gray, or brown color; -- also called yellow lead ore.
Wull (v. t. & i.) See 2d Will.
Wung-out (a.) Having the sails set in the manner called wing-and-wing.
Wurbagool (n.) A fruit bat (Pteropus medius) native of India. It is similar to the flying fox, but smaller.
Wurmal (n.) See Wormil.
Wurraluh (n.) The Australian white-quilled honey eater (Entomyza albipennis).
Wust () Alt. of Wuste
Wuste () imp. of Wit.
Wyandots (n. pl.) Same as Hurons.
Wych-elm (n.) A species of elm (Ulmus montana) found in Northern and Western Europe; Scotch elm.
Wych-hazel (n.) The wych-elm; -- so called because its leaves are like those of the hazel.
Wyclifite (n.) Alt. of Wycliffite
Wycliffite (n.) A follower of Wyclif, the English reformer; a Lollard.
Wyd (a.) Wide.
Wyes (pl. ) of Wye
Wye (n.) The letter Y.
Wye (n.) A kind of crotch. See Y, n. (a).
Wyke (n.) Week.
Wyla (n.) A helmeted Australian cockatoo (Calyptorhynchus funereus); -- called also funeral cockatoo.
Wynd (n.) A narrow lane or alley.
Wynkernel (n.) The European moor hen.
Wynn (n.) A kind of timber truck, or carriage.
Wype (n.) The wipe, or lapwing.
Wythe (n.) Same as Withe, n., 4.
Wys (a.) Wise.
Wyte () Alt. of Wyten
Wyten () pl. pres. of Wit.
Wyvern (n.) Same as Wiver.
X () X, the twenty-fourth letter of the English alphabet, has three sounds; a compound nonvocal sound (that of ks), as in wax; a compound vocal sound (that of gz), as in example; and, at the beginning of a word, a simple vocal sound (that of z), as in xanthic. See Guide to Pronunciation, // 217, 270, 271.
Xanthamide (n.) An amido derivative of xanthic acid obtained as a white crystalline substance, C2H5O.CS.NH2; -- called also xanthogen amide.
Xanthate (n.) A salt of xanthic; a xanthogenate.
Xanthelasma (n.) See Xanthoma.
Xanthian (a.) Of or pertaining to Xanthus, an ancient town on Asia Minor; -- applied especially to certain marbles found near that place, and now in the British Museum.
Xanthic (a.) Tending toward a yellow color, or to one of those colors, green being excepted, in which yellow is a constituent, as scarlet, orange, etc.
Xanthic (a.) Possessing, imparting, or producing a yellow color; as, xanthic acid.
Xanthic (a.) Of or pertaining to xanthic acid, or its compounds; xanthogenic.
Xanthic (a.) Of or pertaining to xanthin.
Xanthide (n.) A compound or derivative of xanthogen.
Xanthidia (pl. ) of Xanthidium
Xanthidium (n.) A genus of minute unicellular algae of the desmids. These algae have a rounded shape and are armed with glochidiate or branched aculei. Several species occur in ditches, and others are found fossil in flint or hornstone.
Xanthin (n.) A crystalline nitrogenous body closely related to both uric acid and hypoxanthin, present in muscle tissue, and occasionally found in the urine and in some urinary calculi. It is also present in guano. So called from the yellow color of certain of its salts (nitrates).
Xanthin (n.) A yellow insoluble coloring matter extracted from yellow flowers; specifically, the coloring matter of madder.
Xanthin (n.) One of the gaseous or volatile decomposition products of the xanthates, and probably identical with carbon disulphide.
Xanthinine (n.) A complex nitrogenous substance related to urea and uric acid, produced as a white powder; -- so called because it forms yellow salts, and because its solution forms a blue fluorescence like quinine.
Xanthium (n.) A genus of composite plants in which the scales of the involucre are united so as to form a kind of bur; cocklebur; clotbur.
Xantho- () A combining form from Gr. xanqo`s yellow; as in xanthocobaltic salts. Used also adjectively in chemistry.
Xanthocarpous (a.) Having yellow fruit.
Xanthochroi (n. pl.) A division of the Caucasian races, comprising the lighter-colored members.
Xanthochroic (a.) Having a yellowish or fair complexion; of or pertaining to the Xanthochroi.
Xanthodontous (a.) Having yellow teeth.
Xanthogen (n.) The hypothetical radical supposed to be characteristic of xanthic acid.
Xanthogen (n.) Persulphocyanogen.
Xanthogenate (n.) A salt of xanthic acid.
Xanthogenic (a.) Producing a yellow color or compound; xanthic. See Xanthic acid, under Xanthic.
Xanthoma (n.) A skin disease marked by the development or irregular yellowish patches upon the skin, especially upon the eyelids; -- called also xanthelasma.
Xanthophane (n.) The yellow pigment present in the inner segments of the retina in animals. See Chromophane.
Xanthophyll (n.) A yellow coloring matter found in yellow autumn leaves, and also produced artificially from chlorophyll; -- formerly called also phylloxanthin.
Xanthopous (a.) Having a yellow stipe, or stem.
Xanthoproteic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, xanthoprotein; showing the characters of xanthoprotein; as, xanthoproteic acid; the xanthoproteic reaction for albumin.
Xanthoprotein (n.) A yellow acid substance formed by the action of hot nitric acid on albuminous or proteid matter. It is changed to a deep orange-yellow color by the addition of ammonia.
Xanthopuccine (n.) One of three alkaloids found in the root of the yellow puccoon (Hydrastis Canadensis). It is a yellow crystalline substance, and resembles berberine.
Xanthorhamnin (n.) A glucoside extracted from Persian berries as a yellow crystalline powder, used as a dyestuff.
Xanthorhiza (n.) A genus of shrubby ranunculaceous plants of North America, including only the species Xanthorhiza apiifolia, which has roots of a deep yellow color; yellowroot. The bark is intensely bitter, and is sometimes used as a tonic.
Xanthorhoea (n.) A genus of endogenous plants, native to Australia, having a thick, sometimes arborescent, stem, and long grasslike leaves. See Grass tree.
Xanthose (n.) An orange-yellow substance found in pigment spots of certain crabs.
Xanthosis (n.) The yellow discoloration often observed in cancerous tumors.
Xanthospermous (a.) Having yellow seeds.
Xanthous (a.) Yellow; specifically (Ethnol.), of or pertaining to those races of man which have yellowish, red, auburn, or brown hair.
Xanthoxylene (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon of the terpene series extracted from the seeds of a Japanese prickly ash (Xanthoxylum pipertium) as an aromatic oil.
Xanthoxylum (n.) A genus of prickly shrubs or small trees, the bark and rots of which are of a deep yellow color; prickly ash.
Xebec (n.) A small three-masted vessel, with projecting bow stern and convex decks, used in the Mediterranean for transporting merchandise, etc. It carries large square sails, or both. Xebecs were formerly armed and used by corsairs.
Xeme (n.) An Arctic fork-tailed gull (Xema Sabinii).
Xenelasia (n.) A Spartan institution which prohibited strangers from residing in Sparta without permission, its object probably being to preserve the national simplicity of manners.
Xenia (pl. ) of Xenium
Xenium (n.) A present given to a guest or stranger, or to a foreign ambassador.
Xenodochium (n.) A house for the reception of strangers.
Xenodochium (n.) In the Middle Ages, a room in a monastery for the reception and entertainment of strangers and pilgrims, and for the relief of paupers. [Called also Xenodocheion.]
Xenodochy (n.) Reception of strangers; hospitality.
Xenogamy (n.) Cross fertilization.
Xenogenesis (n.) Same as Heterogenesis.
Xenogenesis (n.) The fancied production of an organism of one kind by an organism of another.
Xenogenetic (a.) Of or pertaining to xenogenesis; as, the xenogenetic origin of microzymes.
Xenomania (n.) A mania for, or an inordinate attachment to, foreign customs, institutions, manners, fashions, etc.
Xenomi (n. pl.) A suborder of soft-rayed fresh-water fishes of which the blackfish of Alaska (Dallia pectoralis) is the type.
Xenopterygii (n. pl.) A suborder of fishes including Gobiesox and allied genera. These fishes have soft-rayed fins, and a ventral sucker supported in front by the pectoral fins. They are destitute of scales.
Xenotime (n.) A native phosphate of yttrium occurring in yellowish-brown tetragonal crystals.
Xenurine (n.) A cabassou.
Xenyl (n.) The radical characteristic of xenylic compounds.
Xenylic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, designating, certain amido compounds obtained by reducing certain nitro derivatives of diphenyl.
Xeraphim (n.) An old money of account in Bombay, equal to three fifths of a rupee.
Xeres (n.) Sherry. See Sherry.
Xerif (n.) A shereef.
Xeriff (n.) A gold coin formerly current in Egypt and Turkey, of the value of about 9s. 6d., or about $2.30; -- also, in Morocco, a ducat.
Xeroderma (n.) Ichthyosis.
Xeroderma (n.) A skin disease characterized by the presence of numerous small pigmented spots resembling freckles, with which are subsequently mingled spots of atrophied skin.
Xeronate (n.) A salt of xeronic acid.
Xeronic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C8H12O4, related to fumaric acid, and obtained from citraconic acid as an oily substance having a bittersweet taste; -- so called from its tendency to form its anhydride.
Xerophagy (n.) Among the primitive Christians, the living on a diet of dry food in Lent and on other fasts.
Xerophilous (a.) Drought-loving; able withstand the absence or lack of moisture.
Xerophthalmia (n.) An abnormal dryness of the eyeball produced usually by long-continued inflammation and subsequent atrophy of the conjunctiva.
Xerophthalmy (n.) Xerophthalmia.
Xiphias (n.) A genus of fishes comprising the common swordfish.
Xiphias (n.) The constellation Dorado.
Xiphias (n.) A comet shaped like a sword
Xiphidium (n.) A genus of plants of the order Haemodraceae, having two-ranked, sword-shaped leaves.
Xiphioid (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cetacean of the genus Xiphius or family Xiphiidae.
Xiphiplastra (pl. ) of Xiphiplastron
Xiphiplastron (n.) The posterior, or fourth, lateral plate in the plastron of turtles; -- called also xiphisternum.
Xiphisterna (pl. ) of Xiphisternum
Xiphisternum (n.) The posterior segment, or extremity, of the sternum; -- sometimes called metasternum, ensiform cartilage, ensiform process, or xiphoid process.
Xiphisternum (n.) The xiphiplastron.
Xiphius (n.) A genus of cetaceans having a long, pointed, bony beak, usually two tusklike teeth in the lower jaw, but no teeth in the upper jaw.
Xiphodon (n.) An extinct genus of artiodactylous mammals found in the European Tertiary formations. It had slender legs, didactylous feet, and small canine teeth.
Xiphoid (a.) Like a sword; ensiform.
Xiphoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the xiphoid process; xiphoidian.
Xiphoidian (a.) Xiphoid.
Xiphophyllous (a.) Having sword-shaped leaves.
Xiphosura (n. pl.) See Xiphura.
Xiphura (n. pl.) Same as Limuloidea. Called also Xiphosura.
Xylamide (n.) An acid amide derivative of xylic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance.
Xylanthrax (n.) Wood coal, or charcoal; -- so called in distinction from mineral coal.
Xylate (n.) A salt of xylic acid.
Xylem (n.) That portion of a fibrovascular bundle which has developed, or will develop, into wood cells; -- distinguished from phloem.
Xylene (n.) Any of a group of three metameric hydrocarbons of the aromatic series, found in coal and wood tar, and so named because found in crude wood spirit. They are colorless, oily, inflammable liquids, C6H4.(CH3)2, being dimethyl benzenes, and are called respectively orthoxylene, metaxylene, and paraxylene. Called also xylol.
Xylenol (n.) Any one of six metameric phenol derivatives of xylene, obtained as crystalline substances, (CH3)2.C6H3.OH.
Xyletic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a complex acid related to mesitylenic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance by the action of sodium and carbon dioxide on crude xylenol.
Xylic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or related to, xylene; specifically, designating any one of several metameric acids produced by the partial oxidation of mesitylene and pseudo-cumene.
Xylidic (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, either one of two distinct acids which are derived from xylic acid and related compounds, and are metameric with uvitic acid.
Xylidine (n.) Any one of six metameric hydrocarbons, (CH3)2.C6H3.NH2, resembling aniline, and related to xylene. They are liquids, or easily fusible crystalline substances, of which three are derived from metaxylene, two from orthoxylene, and one from paraxylene. They are called the amido xylenes.
Xylindein (n.) A green or blue pigment produced by Peziza in certain kinds of decayed wood, as the beech, oak, birch, etc., and extracted as an amorphous powder resembling indigo.
Xylite (n.) A liquid hydrocarbon found in crude wood spirits.
Xylitone (n.) A yellow oil having a geraniumlike odor, produced as a side product in making phorone; -- called also xylite oil.
Xylo- () A combining form from Gr. xy`lon wood; as in xylogen, xylograph.
Xylobalsamum (n.) The dried twigs of a Syrian tree (Balsamodendron Gileadense).
Xylocarpous (a.) Bearing fruit which becomes hard or woody.
Xylocopa (n.) A genus of hymenopterous insects including the carpenter. See Carpenter bee, under Carpenter.
Xylogen (n.) Nascent wood; wood cells in a forming state.
Xylogen (n.) Lignin.
Xylograph (n.) An engraving on wood, or the impression from such an engraving; a print by xylography.
Xylographer (n.) One who practices xylography.
Xylographic (a.) Alt. of Xylographical
Xylographical (a.) Of or pertaining to xylography, or wood engraving.
Xylography (n.) The art of engraving on wood.
Xylography (n.) The art of making prints from the natural grain of wood.
Xylography (n.) A method pf printing in colors upon wood for purposes of house decoration.
Xyloid (a.) Resembling wood; having the nature of wood.
Xyloidin (n.) A substance resembling pyroxylin, obtained by the action of nitric acid on starch; -- called also nitramidin.
Xylol (n.) Same as Xylene.
Xylonite (n.) See Zylonite.
Xylophaga (n.) A genus of marine bivalves which bore holes in wood. They are allied to Pholas.
Xylophagan (n.) One of a tribe of beetles whose larvae bore or live in wood.
Xylophagan (n.) Any species of Xylophaga.
Xylophagan (n.) Any one of the Xylophagides.
Xylophagides (n. pl.) A tribe or family of dipterous flies whose larvae live in decayed wood. Some of the tropical species are very large.
Xylophagous (a.) Eating, boring in, or destroying, wood; -- said especially of certain insect larvae, crustaceans, and mollusks.
Xylophagous (a.) Of or pertaining to the genus Xylophaga.
Xylophilan (n.) One of a tribe of beetles (Xylophili) whose larvae live on decayed wood.
Xylophilous (a.) Of or pertaining to the xylophilans.
Xylophone (n.) An instrument common among the Russians, Poles, and Tartars, consisting of a series of strips of wood or glass graduated in length to the musical scale, resting on belts of straw, and struck with two small hammers. Called in Germany strohfiedel, or straw fiddle.
Xylophone (n.) An instrument to determine the vibrative properties of different kinds of wood.
Xyloplastic (a.) Formed of wood pulp by molds; relating to casts made of wood pulp in molds.
Xylopyrography (n.) The art or practice of burning pictures on wood with a hot iron; -- called also poker painting. See Poker picture, under Poker.
Xyloquinone (n.) Any one of a group of quinone compounds obtained respectively by the oxidation of certain xylidine compounds. In general they are yellow crystalline substances.
Xylorcin (n.) A derivative of xylene obtained as a white crystalline substance which on exposure in the air becomes red; -- called also betaorcin.
Xylostein (n.) A glucoside found in the poisonous berries of a species of honeysuckle (Lonicera xylosteum), and extracted as a bitter, white, crystalline substance.
Xylotile (n.) Same as Parkesine.
Xylotrya (n.) A genus of marine bivalves closely allied to Teredo, and equally destructive to timber. One species (Xylotrya fimbriata) is very common on the Atlantic coast of the United States.
Xylyl (n.) Any one of three metameric radicals which are characteristic respectively of the three xylenes.
Xylylene (n.) Any one of three metameric radicals, CH2.C6H4.CH2, derived respectively from the three xylenes. Often used adjectively; as, xylylene alcohol.
Xyridaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to a natural order (Xyrideae) of endogenous plants, of which Xyris is the type.
Xyris (n.) A genus of endogenous herbs with grassy leaves and small yellow flowers in short, scaly-bracted spikes; yellow-eyed grass. There are about seventeen species in the Atlantic United States.
Xyst (n.) Alt. of Xystus
Xystus (n.) A long and open portico, for athletic exercises, as wrestling, running, etc., for use in winter or in stormy weather.
Xystarch (n.) An office/ having the superintendence of the xyst.
Xyster (n.) An instrument for scraping bones.
Y () Y, the twenty-fifth letter of the English alphabet, at the beginning of a word or syllable, except when a prefix (see Y-), is usually a fricative vocal consonant; as a prefix, and usually in the middle or at the end of a syllable, it is a vowel. See Guide to Pronunciation, // 145, 178-9, 272.
Y's (pl. ) of Y
Ys (pl. ) of Y
Y (n.) Something shaped like the letter Y; a forked piece resembling in form the letter Y.
Y (n.) One of the forked holders for supporting the telescope of a leveling instrument, or the axis of a theodolite; a wye.
Y (n.) A forked or bifurcated pipe fitting.
Y (n.) A portion of track consisting of two diverging tracks connected by a cross track.
Y (pron.) I.
Y- () Alt. of I-
Y- () A prefix of obscure meaning, originally used with verbs, adverbs, adjectives, nouns, and pronouns. In the Middle English period, it was little employed except with verbs, being chiefly used with past participles, though occasionally with the infinitive Ycleped, or yclept, is perhaps the only word not entirely obsolete which shows this use.
Ya (adv.) Yea.
Yacare (n.) A South American crocodilian (Jacare sclerops) resembling the alligator in size and habits. The eye orbits are connected together, and surrounded by prominent bony ridges. Called also spectacled alligator, and spectacled cayman.
Yacca (n.) A West Indian name for two large timber trees (Podocarpus coriaceus, and P. Purdicanus) of the Yew family. The wood, which is much used, is pale brownish with darker streaks.
Yacht (n.) A light and elegantly furnished vessel, used either for private parties of pleasure, or as a vessel of state to convey distinguished persons from one place to another; a seagoing vessel used only for pleasure trips, racing, etc.
Yacht (v. i.) To manage a yacht; to voyage in a yacht.
Yachter (n.) One engaged in sailing a jacht.
Yachting (n.) Sailing for pleasure in a yacht.
Yachtman (n.) See Yachtsman.
Yachtsmen (pl. ) of Yachtsman
Yachtsman (n.) One who owns or sails a yacht; a yachter.
Yaf (imp.) Gave. See Give.
Yaffingale (n.) The yaffle.
Yaffle (n.) The European green woodpecker (Picus, / Genius, viridis). It is noted for its loud laughlike note. Called also eccle, hewhole, highhoe, laughing bird, popinjay, rain bird, yaffil, yaffler, yaffingale, yappingale, yackel, and woodhack.
Yager (n.) In the German army, one belonging to a body of light infantry armed with rifles, resembling the chasseur of the French army.
Yaguarundi (n.) Same as Jaguarondi.
Yajur-Veda (n.) See Veda.
Yak (n.) A bovine mammal (Poephagus grunnies) native of the high plains of Central Asia. Its neck, the outer side of its legs, and its flanks, are covered with long, flowing, fine hair. Its tail is long and bushy, often white, and is valued as an ornament and for other purposes in India and China. There are several domesticated varieties, some of which lack the mane and the long hair on the flanks. Called also chauri gua, grunting cow, grunting ox, sarlac, sarlik, and sarluc.
Yakamilk (n.) See Trumpeter, 3 (a).
Yakare (n.) Same as Yacare.
Yakin (n.) A large Asiatic antelope (Budorcas taxicolor) native of the higher parts of the Himalayas and other lofty mountains. Its head and neck resemble those of the ox, and its tail is like that of the goat. Called also budorcas.
Yakoots (n. pl.) (Ethnol.) A nomadic Mongolian tribe native of Northern Siberia, and supposed to be of Turkish stock. They are mainly pastoral in their habits.
Yaksha (n.) A kind of demigod attendant on Kuvera, the god of wealth.
Yalah (n.) The oil of the mahwa tree.
Yam (n.) A large, esculent, farinaceous tuber of various climbing plants of the genus Dioscorea; also, the plants themselves. Mostly natives of warm climates. The plants have netted-veined, petioled leaves, and pods with three broad wings. The commonest species is D. sativa, but several others are cultivated.
Yama (n.) The king of the infernal regions, corresponding to the Greek Pluto, and also the judge of departed souls. In later times he is more exclusively considered the dire judge of all, and the tormentor of the wicked. He is represented as of a green color, with red garments, having a crown on his head, his eyes inflamed, and sitting on a buffalo, with a club and noose in his hands.
Yamma (n.) The llama.
Yamp (n.) An umbelliferous plant (Carum Gairdneri); also, its small fleshy roots, which are eaten by the Indians from Idaho to California.
Yang (n.) The cry of the wild goose; a honk.
Yang (v. i.) To make the cry of the wild goose.
Yank (n.) A jerk or twitch.
Yanked (imp. & p. p.) of Yank
Yanking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Yank
Yank (v. t.) To twitch; to jerk.
Yank (n.) An abbreviation of Yankee.
Yankee (n.) A nickname for a native or citizen of New England, especially one descended from old New England stock; by extension, an inhabitant of the Northern States as distinguished from a Southerner; also, applied sometimes by foreigners to any inhabitant of the United States.
Yankee (a.) Of or pertaining to a Yankee; characteristic of the Yankees.
Yankee-Doodle (n.) The name of a tune adopted popularly as one of the national airs of the United States.
Yankee-Doodle (n.) Humorously, a Yankee.
Yankeeism (n.) A Yankee idiom, word, custom, or the like.
Yaourt (n.) A fermented drink, or milk beer, made by the Turks.
Yap (v. i.) To bark; to yelp.
Yap (n.) A bark; a yelp.
Yapock (n.) A South American aquatic opossum (Chironectes variegatus) found in Guiana and Brazil. Its hind feet are webbed, and its fore feet do not have an opposable thumb for climbing. Called also water opossum.
Yapon (n.) Same as Yaupon.
Yarage (a.) The power of moving, or being managed, at sea; -- said with reference to a ship.
Yard (v. i.) A rod; a stick; a staff.
Yard (v. i.) A branch; a twig.
Yard (v. i.) A long piece of timber, as a rafter, etc.
Yard (v. i.) A measure of length, equaling three feet, or thirty-six inches, being the standard of English and American measure.
Yard (v. i.) The penis.
Yard (v. i.) A long piece of timber, nearly cylindrical, tapering toward the ends, and designed to support and extend a square sail. A yard is usually hung by the center to the mast. See Illust. of Ship.
Yard (n.) An inclosure; usually, a small inclosed place in front of, or around, a house or barn; as, a courtyard; a cowyard; a barnyard.
Yard (n.) An inclosure within which any work or business is carried on; as, a dockyard; a shipyard.
Yard (v. t.) To confine (cattle) to the yard; to shut up, or keep, in a yard; as, to yard cows.
Yardarm (n.) Either half of a square-rigged vessel's yard, from the center or mast to the end.
Yardfuls (pl. ) of Yardful
Yardful (n.) As much as a yard will contain; enough to fill a yard.
Yardland (n.) A measure of land of uncertain quantity, varying from fifteen to forty acres; a virgate.
Yardstick (n.) A stick three feet, or a yard, in length, used as a measure of cloth, etc.
Yardwand (n.) A yardstick.
Yare (n.) Ready; dexterous; eager; lively; quick to move.
Yare (adv.) Soon.
Yarely (adv.) In a yare manner.
Yark (v. t. & i.) To yerk.
Yarke (n.) Same as Saki.
Yarn (n.) Spun wool; woolen thread; also, thread of other material, as of cotton, flax, hemp, or silk; material spun and prepared for use in weaving, knitting, manufacturing sewing thread, or the like.
Yarn (n.) One of the threads of which the strands of a rope are composed.
Yarn (n.) A story told by a sailor for the amusement of his companions; a story or tale; as, to spin a yarn.
Yarnen (a.) Made of yarn; consisting of yarn.
Yarnut (n.) See Yernut.
Yarr (v. i.) To growl or snarl as a dog.
Yarrish (a.) Having a rough, dry taste.
Yarrow (n.) An American and European composite plant (Achillea Millefolium) with very finely dissected leaves and small white corymbed flowers. It has a strong, and somewhat aromatic, odor and taste, and is sometimes used in making beer, or is dried for smoking. Called also milfoil, and nosebleed.
Yarwhip (n.) The European bar-tailed godwit; -- called also yardkeep, and yarwhelp. See Godwit.
Yataghan (n.) A long knife, or short saber, common among Mohammedan nations, usually having a double curve, sometimes nearly straight.
Yate (n.) A gate. See 1st Gate.
Yaud (n.) See Yawd.
Yaul (n.) See Yawl.
Yaulp (v. i.) To yaup.
Yaup (v. i.) To cry out like a child; to yelp.
Yaup (n.) A cry of distress, rage, or the like, as the cry of a sickly bird, or of a child in pain.
Yaup (n.) The blue titmouse.
Yauper (n.) One who, or that which, yaups.
Yaupon (n.) A shrub (Ilex Cassine) of the Holly family, native from Virginia to Florida. The smooth elliptical leaves are used as a substitute for tea, and were formerly used in preparing the black drink of the Indians of North Carolina. Called also South-Sea tea.
Yawed (imp. & p. p.) of Yaw
Yawing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Yaw
Yaw (v. i.) To rise in blisters, breaking in white froth, as cane juice in the clarifiers in sugar works.
Yaw (v. i. & t.) To steer wild, or out of the line of her course; to deviate from her course, as when struck by a heavy sea; -- said of a ship.
Yaw (n.) A movement of a vessel by which she temporarily alters her course; a deviation from a straight course in steering.
Yawd (n.) A jade; an old horse or mare.
Yawl (n.) A small ship's boat, usually rowed by four or six oars.
Yawl (v. i.) To cry out like a dog or cat; to howl; to yell.
Yawl-rigged (a.) Having two masts with fore-and-aft sails, but differing from a schooner in that the after mast is very small, and stepped as far aft as possible. See Illustration in Appendix.
Yawned (imp. & p. p.) of Yawn
Yawning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Yawn
Yawn (v. i.) To open the mouth involuntarily through drowsiness, dullness, or fatigue; to gape; to oscitate.
Yawn (v. i.) To open wide; to gape, as if to allow the entrance or exit of anything.
Yawn (v. i.) To open the mouth, or to gape, through surprise or bewilderment.
Yawn (v. i.) To be eager; to desire to swallow anything; to express desire by yawning; as, to yawn for fat livings.
Yawn (n.) An involuntary act, excited by drowsiness, etc., consisting of a deep and long inspiration following several successive attempts at inspiration, the mouth, fauces, etc., being wide open.
Yawn (n.) The act of opening wide, or of gaping.
Yawn (n.) A chasm, mouth, or passageway.
Yawningly (adv.) In a yawning manner.
Yawp (v. & n.) See Yaup.
Yaws (n.) A disease, occurring in the Antilles and in Africa, characterized by yellowish or reddish tumors, of a contagious character, which, in shape and appearance, often resemble currants, strawberries, or raspberries. There are several varieties of this disease, variously known as framboesia, pian, verrugas, and crab-yaws.
Yaw-weed (n.) A low, shrubby, rubiaceous plant (Morinda Royoc) growing along the seacoast of the West Indies. It has small, white, odorous flowers.
Ybe (p. p.) Been.
Ycleped (p. p.) Called; named; -- obsolete, except in archaic or humorous writings.
Ydo (p. p.) Done.
Ydrad (p. p.) Dreaded.
Ye () Alt. of Ye
Ye () an old method of printing the article the (AS. /e), the "y" being used in place of the Anglo-Saxon thorn (/). It is sometimes incorrectly pronounced ye. See The, and Thorn, n., 4.
Yen (pl. ) of Ye
Ye (n.) An eye.
Ye (pron.) The plural of the pronoun of the second person in the nominative case.
Ye (adv.) Yea; yes.
Yea (adv.) Yes; ay; a word expressing assent, or an affirmative, or an affirmative answer to a question, now superseded by yes. See Yes.
Yea (adv.) More than this; not only so, but; -- used to mark the addition of a more specific or more emphatic clause. Cf. Nay, adv., 2.
Yea (n.) An affirmative vote; one who votes in the affirmative; as, a vote by yeas and nays.
Yead (v. i.) Properly, a variant of the defective imperfect yode, but sometimes mistaken for a present. See the Note under Yede.
Yeaned (imp. & p. p.) of Yean
Yeaning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Yean
Yean (v. t. & i.) To bring forth young, as a goat or a sheep; to ean.
Yeanling (n.) A lamb or a kid; an eanling.
Year (n.) The time of the apparent revolution of the sun trough the ecliptic; the period occupied by the earth in making its revolution around the sun, called the astronomical year; also, a period more or less nearly agreeing with this, adopted by various nations as a measure of time, and called the civil year; as, the common lunar year of 354 days, still in use among the Mohammedans; the year of 360 days, etc. In common usage, the year consists of 365 days, and every fourth year (called bissextile, or leap year) of 366 days, a day being added to February on that year, on account of the excess above 365 days (see Bissextile).
Year (n.) The time in which any planet completes a revolution about the sun; as, the year of Jupiter or of Saturn.
Year (n.) Age, or old age; as, a man in years.
Yeara (n.) The California poison oak (Rhus diversiloba). See under Poison, a.
Yearbook (n.) A book published yearly; any annual report or summary of the statistics or facts of a year, designed to be used as a reference book; as, the Congregational Yearbook.
Yearbook (n.) A book containing annual reports of cases adjudged in the courts of England.
Yeared (a.) Containing years; having existed or continued many years; aged.
Yearling (n.) An animal one year old, or in the second year of its age; -- applied chiefly to cattle, sheep, and horses.
Yearling (a.) Being a year old.
Yearly (a.) Happening, accruing, or coming every year; annual; as, a yearly income; a yearly feast.
Yearly (a.) Lasting a year; as, a yearly plant.
Yearly (a.) Accomplished in a year; as, the yearly circuit, or revolution, of the earth.
Yearly (adv.) Annually; once a year to year; as, blessings yearly bestowed.
Yearned (imp. & p. p.) of Yearn
Yearning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Yearn
Yearn (v. t.) To pain; to grieve; to vex.
Yearn (v. i.) To be pained or distressed; to grieve; to mourn.
Yearn (v. i. & t.) To curdle, as milk.
Yearn (v. i.) To be filled with longing desire; to be harassed or rendered uneasy with longing, or feeling the want of a thing; to strain with emotions of affection or tenderness; to long; to be eager.
Yearnful (a.) Desirous.
Yearningly (adv.) With yearning.
Yearnings (n. pl.) The maws, or stomachs, of young calves, used as a rennet for curdling milk.
Yearth (n.) The earth.
Yeast (n.) The foam, or troth (top yeast), or the sediment (bottom yeast), of beer or other in fermentation, which contains the yeast plant or its spores, and under certain conditions produces fermentation in saccharine or farinaceous substances; a preparation used for raising dough for bread or cakes, and making it light and puffy; barm; ferment.
Yeast (n.) Spume, or foam, of water.
Yeast (n.) A form of fungus which grows as indvidual rounded cells, rather than in a mycelium, and reproduces by budding; esp. members of the orders Endomycetales and Moniliales. Some fungi may grow both as a yeast or as a mycelium, depending on the conditions of growth.
Yeast-bitten (a.) A term used of beer when the froth of the yeast has reentered the body of the beer.
Yeastiness (n.) The quality or state of being yeasty, or frothy.
Yeasty (a.) Frothy; foamy; spumy, like yeast.
Yedding (n.) The song of a minstrel; hence, any song.
Yede (imp.) Went. See Yode.
Yeel (n.) An eel.
Yeldhall (n.) Guildhall.
Yeldrin (n.) Alt. of Yeldrine
Yeldrine (n.) The yellow-hammer; -- called also yeldrock, and yoldrin.
Yelk (n.) Same as Yolk.
Yelled (imp. & p. p.) of Yell
Yelling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Yell
Yell (v. i.) To cry out, or shriek, with a hideous noise; to cry or scream as with agony or horror.
Yell (v. t.) To utter or declare with a yell; to proclaim in a loud tone.
Yell (n.) A sharp, loud, hideous outcry.
Yellow (superl.) Being of a bright saffronlike color; of the color of gold or brass; having the hue of that part of the rainbow, or of the solar spectrum, which is between the orange and the green.
Yellow (n.) A bright golden color, reflecting more light than any other except white; the color of that part of the spectrum which is between the orange and green.
Yellow (n.) A yellow pigment.
Yellowed (imp. & p. p.) of Yellow
Yellowing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Yellow
Yellow (v. t.) To make yellow; to cause to have a yellow tinge or color; to dye yellow.
Yellow (v. i.) To become yellow or yellower.
Yellowammer (n.) See Yellow-hammer.
Yellowbill (n.) The American scoter.
Yellowbird (n.) The American goldfinch, or thistle bird. See Goldfinch.
Yellowbird (n.) The common yellow warbler; -- called also summer yellowbird. See Illust. of Yellow warbler, under Yellow, a.
Yellow-covered (a.) Covered or bound in yellow paper.
Yellow-eyed (a.) Having yellow eyes.
Yellowfin (n.) A large squeteague.
Yellowfish (n.) A rock trout (Pleurogrammus monopterygius) found on the coast of Alaska; -- called also striped fish, and Atka mackerel.
Yellow-golds (n.) A certain plant, probably the yellow oxeye.
Yellowhammer (n.) A common European finch (Emberiza citrinella). The color of the male is bright yellow on the breast, neck, and sides of the head, with the back yellow and brown, and the top of the head and the tail quills blackish. Called also yellow bunting, scribbling lark, and writing lark.
Yellowhammer (n.) The flicker.
Yellowing (n.) The act or process of making yellow.
Yellowish (a.) Somewhat yellow; as, amber is of a yellowish color.
Yellowlegs (n.) Any one of several species of long-legged sandpipers of the genus Totanus, in which the legs are bright yellow; -- called also stone snipe, tattler, telltale, yellowshanks; and yellowshins. See Tattler, 2.
Yellowness (n.) The quality or state of being yellow; as, the yellowness of an orange.
Yellowness (n.) Jealousy.
Yellowroot (n.) Any one of several plants with yellow roots.
Yellowroot (n.) See Xanthorhiza.
Yellowroot (n.) Same as Orangeroot.
Yellows (n.) A disease of the bile in horses, cattle, and sheep, causing yellowness of the eyes; jaundice.
Yellows (n.) A disease of plants, esp. of peach trees, in which the leaves turn to a yellowish color; jeterus.
Yellows (n.) A group of butterflies in which the predominating color is yellow. It includes the common small yellow butterflies. Called also redhorns, and sulphurs. See Sulphur.
Yellowseed (n.) A kind of pepper grass (Lepidium campestre).
Yellowshanks (n.) Alt. of Yellowshins
Yellowshins (n.) See Yellolegs.
Yellowtail (n.) Any one of several species of marine carangoid fishes of the genus Seriola; especially, the large California species (S. dorsalis) which sometimes weighs thirty or forty pounds, and is highly esteemed as a food fish; -- called also cavasina, and white salmon.
Yellowtail (n.) The mademoiselle, or silver perch.
Yellowtail (n.) The menhaden.
Yellowtail (n.) The runner, 12.
Yellowtail (n.) A California rockfish (Sebastodes flavidus).
Yellowtail (n.) The sailor's choice (Diplodus rhomboides).
Yellowthroat (n.) Any one of several species of American ground warblers of the genus Geothlypis, esp. the Maryland yellowthroat (G. trichas), which is a very common species.
Yellowtop (n.) A kind of grass, perhaps a species of Agrostis.
Yellowwood (n.) The wood of any one of several different kinds of trees; also, any one of the trees themselves. Among the trees so called are the Cladrastis tinctoria, an American leguminous tree; the several species of prickly ash (Xanthoxylum); the Australian Flindersia Oxleyana, a tree related to the mahogany; certain South African species of Podocarpus, trees related to the yew; the East Indian Podocarpus latifolia; and the true satinwood (Chloroxylon Swietenia). All these Old World trees furnish valuable timber.
Yellowwort (n.) A European yellow-flowered, gentianaceous (Chlora perfoliata). The whole plant is intensely bitter, and is sometimes used as a tonic, and also in dyeing yellow.
Yelped (imp. & p. p.) of Yelp
Yelping (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Yelp
Yelp (v. i.) To boast.
Yelp (v. i.) To utter a sharp, quick cry, as a hound; to bark shrilly with eagerness, pain, or fear; to yaup.
Yelp (n.) A sharp, quick cry; a bark.
Yelper (n.) An animal that yelps, or makes a yelping noise.
Yelper (n.) The avocet; -- so called from its sharp, shrill cry.
Yelper (n.) The tattler.
Yeman (n.) A yeoman.
Yen (n.) The unit of value and account in Japan. Since Japan's adoption of the gold standard, in 1897, the value of the yen has been about 50 cents. The yen is equal to 100 sen.
Yend (v. t.) To throw; to cast.
Yenite (n.) A silicate of iron and lime occurring in black prismatic crystals; -- also called ilvaite.
Yeomen (pl. ) of Yeoman
Yeoman (n.) A common man, or one of the commonly of the first or most respectable class; a freeholder; a man free born.
Yeoman (n.) A servant; a retainer.
Yeoman (n.) A yeoman of the guard; also, a member of the yeomanry cavalry.
Yeoman (n.) An interior officer under the boatswain, gunner, or carpenters, charged with the stowage, account, and distribution of the stores.
Yeomanlike (a.) Resembling, or suitable to, a yeoman; yeomanly.
Yeomanly (a.) Pertaining to a yeoman; becoming or suitable to, a yeoman; yeomanlike.
Yeomanry (n.) The position or rank of a yeoman.
Yeomanry (n.) The collective body of yeomen, or freeholders.
Yeomanry (n.) The yeomanry cavalry.
Yeorling (n.) The European yellow-hammer.
Yer (prep.) Ere; before.
Yerba (n.) An herb; a plant.
Yerd (n.) See 1st & 2d Yard.
Yerked (imp. & p. p.) of Yerk
Yerking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Yerk
Yerk (v. t.) To throw or thrust with a sudden, smart movement; to kick or strike suddenly; to jerk.
Yerk (v. t.) To strike or lash with a whip.
Yerk (v. i.) To throw out the heels; to kick; to jerk.
Yerk (v. i.) To move a quick, jerking motion.
Yerk (n.) A sudden or quick thrust or motion; a jerk.
Yern (v. i.) See 3d Yearn.
Yern (a.) Eager; brisk; quick; active.
Yerne (a.) Eagerly; briskly; quickly.
Yernut (n.) An earthnut, or groundnut. See Groundnut (d).
Yerst (adv.) See Erst.
Yes (adv.) Ay; yea; -- a word which expresses affirmation or consent; -- opposed to no.
Yest (n.) See Yeast.
Yester (a.) Last; last past; next before; of or pertaining to yesterday.
Yesterday (n.) The day last past; the day next before the present.
Yesterday (n.) Fig.: A recent time; time not long past.
Yesterday (adv.) On the day last past; on the day preceding to-day; as, the affair took place yesterday.
Yestereve (n.) Alt. of Yester-evening
Yester-evening (n.) The evening of yesterday; the evening last past.
Yestermorn (n.) Alt. of Yester-morning
Yester-morning (n.) The morning of yesterday.
Yestern (a.) Of or pertaining to yesterday; relating to the day last past.
Yesternight (n.) The last night; the night last past.
Yesternight (adv.) On the last night.
Yesternoon (n.) The noon of yesterday; the noon last past.
Yesterweek (n.) The week last past; last week.
Yesteryear (n.) The year last past; last year.
Yestreen (n.) Yester-evening; yesternight; last night.
Yesty (a.) See Yeasty.
Yet (n.) Any one of several species of large marine gastropods belonging to the genus Yetus, or Cymba; a boat shell.
Yet (adv.) In addition; further; besides; over and above; still.
Yet (adv.) At the same time; by continuance from a former state; still.
Yet (adv.) Up to the present time; thus far; hitherto; until now; -- and with the negative, not yet, not up to the present time; not as soon as now; as, Is it time to go? Not yet. See As yet, under As, conj.
Yet (conj.) Before some future time; before the end; eventually; in time.
Yet (conj.) Even; -- used emphatically.
Yet (conj.) Nevertheless; notwithstanding; however.
Yeve (v. i.) To give.
Yeven (p. p.) Given.
Yew (v. i.) See Yaw.
Yew (n.) An evergreen tree (Taxus baccata) of Europe, allied to the pines, but having a peculiar berrylike fruit instead of a cone. It frequently grows in British churchyards.
Yew (n.) The wood of the yew. It is light red in color, compact, fine-grained, and very elastic. It is preferred to all other kinds of wood for bows and whipstocks, the best for these purposes coming from Spain.
Yew (n.) A bow for shooting, made of the yew.
Yew (a.) Of or pertaining to yew trees; made of the wood of a yew tree; as, a yew whipstock.
Yewen (a.) Made of yew; as, yewen bows.
Yex (v. i.) To hiccough.
Yex (v. i.) A hiccough.
Yezdegerdian (a.) Of or pertaining to Yezdegerd, the last Sassanian monarch of Persia, who was overthrown by the Mohammedans; as, the Yezdegerdian era, which began on the 16th of June, a. d. 632. The era is still used by the Parsees.
Yezdi (n.) Same as Izedi.
Yezidee (n.) Alt. of Yezidi
Yezidi (n.) Same as Izedi.
Yfere (adv.) Together. See Ifere.
Ygdrasyl (n.) See in the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction.
Yghe (n.) Eye.
Ygo (p. p.) Gone.
Yground () p. p. of Grind.
Yholde () p. p. of Hold.
Yielded (imp. & p. p.) of Yield
Yold (obs. p. p.) of Yield
Yielding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Yield
Yield (v. t.) To give in return for labor expended; to produce, as payment or interest on what is expended or invested; to pay; as, money at interest yields six or seven per cent.
Yield (v. t.) To furnish; to afford; to render; to give forth.
Yield (v. t.) To give up, as something that is claimed or demanded; to make over to one who has a claim or right; to resign; to surrender; to relinquish; as a city, an opinion, etc.
Yield (v. t.) To admit to be true; to concede; to allow.
Yield (v. t.) To permit; to grant; as, to yield passage.
Yield (v. t.) To give a reward to; to bless.
Yield (v. i.) To give up the contest; to submit; to surrender; to succumb.
Yield (v. i.) To comply with; to assent; as, I yielded to his request.
Yield (v. i.) To give way; to cease opposition; to be no longer a hindrance or an obstacle; as, men readily yield to the current of opinion, or to customs; the door yielded.
Yield (v. i.) To give place, as inferior in rank or excellence; as, they will yield to us in nothing.
Yield (n.) Amount yielded; product; -- applied especially to products resulting from growth or cultivation.
Yieldable (a.) Disposed to yield or comply.
Yieldance (n.) The act of producing; yield; as, the yieldance of the earth.
Yieldance (n.) The act of yielding; concession.
Yielder (n.) One who yields.
Yielding (a.) Inclined to give way, or comply; flexible; compliant; accommodating; as, a yielding temper.
Yieldless (a.) Without yielding; unyielding.
Yift (n.) Gift.
Yin (n.) A Chinese weight of 2/ pounds.
Yis (adv.) Yes.
Yit (conj.) Yet.
Yite (n.) The European yellow-hammer.
Yive (v. t. & i.) To give.
-yl () A suffix used as a characteristic termination of chemical radicals; as in ethyl, carbonyl, hydroxyl, etc.
Yle (n.) Isle.
Y level () See under Y, n.
Yliche (a. & adv.) Alt. of Ylike
Ylike (a. & adv.) Like; alike.
Yllanraton (n.) The agouara.
Ymaked (p. p.) Made.
Ymel (prep.) Among.
Ynambu (n.) A South American tinamou (Rhynchotus rufescens); -- called also perdiz grande, and rufous tinamou. See Illust. of Tinamou.
Ynough (a.) Alt. of Ynow
Ynow (a.) Enough.
Yockel (n.) The yaffle.
Yode (imp.) Went; walked; proceeded.
Yodeled (imp. & p. p.) of Yodle
Yodled () of Yodle
Yodeling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Yodle
Yodling () of Yodle
Yodel (v. t. & i.) Alt. of Yodle
Yodle (v. t. & i.) To sing in a manner common among the Swiss and Tyrolese mountaineers, by suddenly changing from the head voice, or falsetto, to the chest voice, and the contrary; to warble.
Yodel (n.) Alt. of Yodle
Yodle (n.) A song sung by yodeling, as by the Swiss mountaineers.
Yodler (n.) One who yodels.
Yoga (n.) A species of asceticism among the Hindoos, which consists in a complete abstraction from all worldly objects, by which the votary expects to obtain union with the universal spirit, and to acquire superhuman faculties.
Yogi (n.) A follower of the yoga philosophy; an ascetic.
Yoicks (interj.) A cry of encouragement to foxhounds.
Yoit (n.) The European yellow-hammer.
Yojan (n.) A measure of distance, varying from four to ten miles, but usually about five.
Yoke (n.) A bar or frame of wood by which two oxen are joined at the heads or necks for working together.
Yoke (n.) A frame or piece resembling a yoke, as in use or shape.
Yoke (n.) A frame of wood fitted to a person's shoulders for carrying pails, etc., suspended on each side; as, a milkmaid's yoke.
Yoke (n.) A frame worn on the neck of an animal, as a cow, a pig, a goose, to prevent passage through a fence.
Yoke (n.) A frame or convex piece by which a bell is hung for ringing it. See Illust. of Bell.
Yoke (n.) A crosspiece upon the head of a boat's rudder. To its ends lines are attached which lead forward so that the boat can be steered from amidships.
Yoke (n.) A bent crosspiece connecting two other parts.
Yoke (n.) A tie securing two timbers together, not used for part of a regular truss, but serving a temporary purpose, as to provide against unusual strain.
Yoke (n.) A band shaped to fit the shoulders or the hips, and joined to the upper full edge of the waist or the skirt.
Yoke (n.) Fig.: That which connects or binds; a chain; a link; a bond connection.
Yoke (n.) A mark of servitude; hence, servitude; slavery; bondage; service.
Yoke (n.) Two animals yoked together; a couple; a pair that work together.
Yoke (n.) The quantity of land plowed in a day by a yoke of oxen.
Yoke (n.) A portion of the working day; as, to work two yokes, that is, to work both portions of the day, or morning and afternoon.
Yoked (imp. & p. p.) of Yoke
Yoking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Yoke
Yoke (v. t.) To put a yoke on; to join in or with a yoke; as, to yoke oxen, or pair of oxen.
Yoke (v. t.) To couple; to join with another.
Yoke (v. t.) To enslave; to bring into bondage; to restrain; to confine.
Yoke (v. i.) To be joined or associated; to be intimately connected; to consort closely; to mate.
Yokeage (n.) See Rokeage.
Yokefellow (n.) An associate or companion in, or as in; a mate; a fellow; especially, a partner in marriage.
Yokel (n.) A country bumpkin.
Yokelet (n.) A small farm; -- so called as requiring but one yoke of oxen to till it.
Yokemate (n.) Same as Yokefellow.
Yoke-toed (a.) Having two toes in front and two behind, as the trogons and woodpeckers.
Yold (p. p.) Yielded.
Yolden (p. p.) Yielded.
Yolk (n.) The yellow part of an egg; the vitellus.
Yolk (n.) An oily secretion which naturally covers the wool of sheep.
Yoll (v. i.) To yell.
Yon (a.) At a distance, but within view; yonder.
Yon (adv.) Yonder.
Yoncopin (n.) A local name in parts of the Mississippi Valley for the American lotus (Nelumbo lutea).
Yond (a.) Furious; mad; angry; fierce.
Yond (a.) Yonder.
Yonder (adv.) At a distance, but within view.
Yonder (a.) Being at a distance within view, or conceived of as within view; that or those there; yon.
Yoni (n.) The symbol under which Sakti, or the personification of the female power in nature, is worshiped. Cf. Lingam.
Yonker (n.) A young fellow; a younker.
Yore (adv.) In time long past; in old time; long since.
Yorker (n.) A tice.
Yorkshire (n.) A county in the north of England.
York use () The one of the three printed uses of England which was followed in the north. It was based on the Sarum use. See Use, n., 6.
Yot (v. t.) To unite closely.
Yote (v. t.) To pour water on; to soak in, or mix with, water.
You (dat. & obj.) The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed. See the Note under Ye.
Youl (v. i.) To yell; to yowl.
Young (superl.) Not long born; still in the first part of life; not yet arrived at adolescence, maturity, or age; not old; juvenile; -- said of animals; as, a young child; a young man; a young fawn.
Young (superl.) Being in the first part, pr period, of growth; as, a young plant; a young tree.
Young (superl.) Having little experience; inexperienced; unpracticed; ignorant; weak.
Young (n.) The offspring of animals, either a single animal or offspring collectively.
Youngger (n.) One who is younger; an inferior in age; a junior.
Youngish (a.) Somewhat young.
Youngling (n.) A young person; a youth; also, any animal in its early life.
Youngling (a.) Young; youthful.
Youngly (a.) Like a young person or thing; young; youthful.
Youngly (adv.) In a young manner; in the period of youth; early in life.
Youngly (adv.) Ignorantly; weakly.
Youngness (n.) The quality or state of being young.
Youngster (n.) A young person; a youngling; a lad.
Youngth (n.) Youth.
Youngthly (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, youth; youthful.
Younker (a.) A young person; a stripling; a yonker.
Youpon (n.) Same as Yaupon.
Your (pron. & a.) The form of the possessive case of the personal pronoun you.
Yours (pron.) See the Note under Your.
Yourselves (pl. ) of Yourself
Yourself (pron.) An emphasized or reflexive form of the pronoun of the second person; -- used as a subject commonly with you; as, you yourself shall see it; also, alone in the predicate, either in the nominative or objective case; as, you have injured yourself.
Youths (pl. ) of Youth
Youth (pl. ) of Youth
Youth (n.) The quality or state of being young; youthfulness; juvenility.
Youth (n.) The part of life that succeeds to childhood; the period of existence preceding maturity or age; the whole early part of life, from childhood, or, sometimes, from infancy, to manhood.
Youth (n.) A young person; especially, a young man.
Youth (n.) Young persons, collectively.
Youthful (a.) Not yet mature or aged; young.
Youthful (a.) Also used figuratively.
Youthful (a.) Of or pertaining to the early part of life; suitable to early life; as, youthful days; youthful sports.
Youthful (a.) Fresh; vigorous, as in youth.
Youthhood (n.) The quality or state of being a youth; the period of youth.
Youthly (a.) Young; youthful.
Youthsome (a.) Youthful.
Youthy (a.) Young.
Youze (n.) The cheetah.
Yow (pron.) You.
Yowe (n.) A ewe.
Yowl (v. i.) To utter a loud, long, and mournful cry, as a dog; to howl; to yell.
Yowl (n.) A loud, protracted, and mournful cry, as that of a dog; a howl.
Yowley (n.) The European yellow-hammer.
Yox (v. i.) See Yex.
Ypight (p. p.) See Pight.
Ypocras (n.) Hippocras.
Ypres lace () Fine bobbin lace made at Ypres in Belgium, usually exactly like Valenciennes lace.
Ypsiliform (a.) Resembling the / in appearance; -- said of the germinal spot in the ripe egg at one of the stages of fecundation.
Ypsiloid (a.) In the form of the letter Y; Y-shaped.
Yraft (p. p.) Bereft.
Yren (n.) Iron.
Yronne (p. p.) Run.
Ysame (adv.) Together.
Yt () Alt. of Yt
Yt () an old method of printing that (AS. /aet, /aet) the "y" taking the place of the old letter "thorn" (/). Cf. Ye, the.
Ythrowe () p. p. of Throw.
Ytterbic (a.) Pertaining to, or derived from, ytterbium; containing ytterbium.
Ytterbium (n.) A rare element of the boron group, sometimes associated with yttrium or other related elements, as in euxenite and gadolinite. Symbol Yb; provisional atomic weight 173.2. Cf. Yttrium.
Yttria (n.) The oxide, Y2O3, or earth, of yttrium.
Yttric (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, yttrium.
Yttriferous (a.) Bearing or containing yttrium or the allied elements; as, gadolinite is one of the yttriferous minerals.
Yttrious (a.) Same as Yttric.
Yttrium (n.) A rare metallic element of the boron-aluminium group, found in gadolinite and other rare minerals, and extracted as a dark gray powder. Symbol Y. Atomic weight, 89.
Yttro-cerite (n.) A mineral of a violet-blue color, inclining to gray and white. It is a hydrous fluoride of cerium, yttrium, and calcium.
Yttro-columbite (n.) Alt. of Yttro-tantalite
Yttro-tantalite (n.) A tantalate of uranium, yttrium, and calcium, of a brown or black color.
Yu (n.) Jade.
Yucca (n.) See Flicker, n., 2.
Yucca (n.) A genus of American liliaceous, sometimes arborescent, plants having long, pointed, and often rigid, leaves at the top of a more or less woody stem, and bearing a large panicle of showy white blossoms.
Yuck (v. i.) To itch.
Yuck (v. t.) To scratch.
Yuckel (n.) Same as Yockel.
Yuen (n.) The crowned gibbon (Hylobates pileatus), native of Siam, Southern China, and the Island of Hainan. It is entirely arboreal in its habits, and has very long arms. the males are dark brown or blackish, with a caplike mass of long dark hair, and usually with a white band around the face. The females are yellowish white, with a dark spot on the breast and another on the crown. Called also wooyen, and wooyen ape.
Yufts (n.) Russia leather.
Yug (n.) Alt. of Yuga
Yuga (n.) Any one of the four ages, Krita, or Satya, Treta, Dwapara, and Kali, into which the Hindoos divide the duration or existence of the world.
Yuke (v. i. & t.) Same as Yuck.
Yulan (n.) A species of Magnolia (M. conspicua) with large white blossoms that open before the leaves. See the Note under Magnolia.
Yule (n.) Christmas or Christmastide; the feast of the Nativity of our Savior.
Yuletide (n.) Christmas time; Christmastide; the season of Christmas.
Yumas (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians native of Arizona and the adjacent parts of Mexico and California. They are agricultural, and cultivate corn, wheat, barley, melons, etc.
Yunx (n.) A genus of birds comprising the wrynecks.
Yupon (n.) Same as Yaupon.
Yux (n. & v.) See Yex, n.
Yvel (a. & adv.) Evil; ill.
Ywar (a.) Aware; wary.
Ywis (adv.) Certainly; most likely; truly; probably.
Z () Z, the twenty-sixth and last letter of the English alphabet, is a vocal consonant. It is taken from the Latin letter Z, which came from the Greek alphabet, this having it from a Semitic source. The ultimate origin is probably Egyptian. Etymologically, it is most closely related to s, y, and j; as in glass, glaze; E. yoke, Gr. /, L. yugum; E. zealous, jealous. See Guide to Pronunciation, // 273, 274.
Za (n.) An old solfeggio name for B flat; the seventh harmonic, as heard in the or aeolian string; -- so called by Tartini. It was long considered a false, but is the true note of the chord of the flat seventh.
Zabaism (n.) Alt. of Zabism
Zabism (n.) See Sabianism.
Zabian (a. & n.) See Sabian.
Zacco (n.) See Zocco.
Zachun (n.) An oil pressed by the Arabs from the fruit of a small thorny tree (Balanites Aegyptiaca), and sold to piligrims for a healing ointment.
Zaerthe (n.) Same as Z/rthe.
Zaffer (n.) A pigment obtained, usually by roasting cobalt glance with sand or quartz, as a dark earthy powder. It consists of crude cobalt oxide, or of an impure cobalt arseniate. It is used in porcelain painting, and in enameling pottery, to produce a blue color, and is often confounded with smalt, from which, however, it is distinct, as it contains no potash. The name is often loosely applied to mixtures of zaffer proper with silica, or oxides of iron, manganese, etc.
Zaim (n.) A Turkish chief who supports a mounted militia bearing the same name.
Zaimet (n.) A district from which a Zaim draws his revenue.
Zain (n.) A horse of a dark color, neither gray nor white, and having no spots.
Zalambdodont (a.) Of or pertaining to a tribe (Zalambdodonta) of Insectivora in which the molar teeth have but one V-shaped ridge.
Zalambdodont (n.) One of the Zalambdodonta. The tenrec, solenodon, and golden moles are examples.
Zamang (n.) An immense leguminous tree (Pithecolobium Saman) of Venezuela. Its branches form a hemispherical mass, often one hundred and eighty feet across. The sweet pulpy pods are used commonly for feeding cattle. Also called rain tree.
Zambos (pl. ) of Zambo
Zambo (n.) The child of a mulatto and a negro; also, the child of an Indian and a negro; colloquially or humorously, a negro; a sambo.
Zamia (n.) A genus of cycadaceous plants, having the appearance of low palms, but with exogenous wood. See Coontie, and Illust. of Strobile.
Zamindar (n.) A landowner; also, a collector of land revenue; now, usually, a kind of feudatory recognized as an actual proprietor so long as he pays to the government a certain fixed revenue.
Zamindary (n.) Alt. of Zamindari
Zamindari (n.) The jurisdiction of a zamindar; the land possessed by a zamindar.
Zamite (n.) A fossil cycad of the genus Zamia.
Zamouse (n.) A West African buffalo (Bubalus brachyceros) having short horns depressed at the base, and large ears fringed internally with three rows of long hairs. It is destitute of a dewlap. Called also short-horned buffalo, and bush cow.
Zampogna (n.) A sort of bagpipe formerly in use among Italian peasants. It is now almost obsolete.
Zander (n.) A European pike perch (Stizostedion lucioperca) allied to the wall-eye; -- called also sandari, sander, sannat, schill, and zant.
Zandmole (n.) The sand mole.
Zante (n.) See Zantewood.
Zante currant () A kind of seedless grape or raisin; -- so called from Zante, one of the Ionian Islands.
Zantewood (n.) A yellow dyewood; fustet; -- called also zante, and zante fustic. See Fustet, and the Note under Fustic.
Zantewood (n.) Satinwood (Chloroxylon Swietenia).
Zantiot (n.) A native or inhabitant of Zante, one of the Ionian Islands.
Zanies (pl. ) of Zany
Zany (n.) A merry-andrew; a buffoon.
Zany (v. t.) To mimic.
Zanyism (n.) State or character of a zany; buffoonery.
Zaphara (n.) Zaffer.
Zaphrentis (n.) An extinct genus of cyathophylloid corals common in the Paleozoic formations. It is cup-shaped with numerous septa, and with a deep pit in one side of the cup.
Zapotilla (n.) See Sapodilla.
Zaptiah (n.) A Turkish policeman.
Zarathustrian (a.) Alt. of Zarathustric
Zarathustric (a.) Of or pertaining to Zarathustra, or Zoroaster; Zoroastrian.
Zarathustrism (n.) See Zoroastrianism.
Zaratite (n.) A hydrous carbonate of nickel occurring as an emerald-green incrustation on chromite; -- called also emerald nickel.
Zareba (n.) An improvised stockade; especially, one made of thorn bushes, etc.
Zarnich (n.) Native sulphide of arsenic, including sandarach, or realgar, and orpiment.
Zarthe (n.) A European bream (Abramis vimba).
Zati (n.) A species of macaque (Macacus pileatus) native of India and Ceylon. It has a crown of long erect hair, and tuft of radiating hairs on the back of the head. Called also capped macaque.
Zauschneria (n.) A genus of flowering plants. Zauschneria Californica is a suffrutescent perennial, with showy red flowers much resembling those of the garden fuchsia.
Zax (n.) A tool for trimming and puncturing roofing slates.
Zayat (n.) A public shed, or portico, for travelers, worshipers, etc.
Zea (n.) A genus of large grasses of which the Indian corn (Zea Mays) is the only species known. Its origin is not yet ascertained. See Maize.
Zeal (n.) Passionate ardor in the pursuit of anything; eagerness in favor of a person or cause; ardent and active interest; engagedness; enthusiasm; fervor.
Zeal (n.) A zealot.
Zeal (v. i.) To be zealous.
Zealant (n.) One who is zealous; a zealot; an enthusiast.
Zealed (a.) Full of zeal; characterized by zeal.
Zealful (a.) Full of zeal.
Zealless (a.) Wanting zeal.
Zealot (n.) One who is zealous; one who engages warmly in any cause, and pursues his object with earnestness and ardor; especially, one who is overzealous, or carried away by his zeal; one absorbed in devotion to anything; an enthusiast; a fanatical partisan.
Zealotical (a.) Like, or suitable to, a zealot; ardently zealous.
Zealotism (n.) The character or conduct of a zealot; zealotry.
Zealotist (n.) A zealot.
Zealotry (n.) The character and behavior of a zealot; excess of zeal; fanatical devotion to a cause.
Zealous (a.) Filled with, or characterized by, zeal; warmly engaged, or ardent, in behalf of an object.
Zealous (a.) Filled with religious zeal.
Zebec (n.) See Xebec.
Zebra (n.) Either one of two species of South African wild horses remarkable for having the body white or yellowish white, and conspicuously marked with dark brown or brackish bands.
Zebrawood (n.) A kind of cabinet wood having beautiful black, brown, and whitish stripes, the timber of a tropical American tree (Connarus Guianensis).
Zebrawood (n.) The wood of a small West Indian myrtaceous tree (Eugenia fragrans).
Zebrawood (n.) The wood of an East Indian tree of the genus Guettarda.
Zebrine (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, the zebra.
Zebu (n.) A bovine mammal (Ros Indicus) extensively domesticated in India, China, the East Indies, and East Africa. It usually has short horns, large pendulous ears, slender legs, a large dewlap, and a large, prominent hump over the shoulders; but these characters vary in different domestic breeds, which range in size from that of the common ox to that of a large mastiff.
Zebub (n.) A large noxious fly of Abyssinia, which like the tsetse fly, is destructive to cattle.
Zechin (n.) See Sequin.
Zechstein (n.) The upper division of the Permian (Dyas) of Europe. The prevailing rock is a magnesian limestone.
Zed (n.) The letter Z; -- called also zee, and formerly izzard.
Zedoary (n.) A medicinal substance obtained in the East Indies, having a fragrant smell, and a warm, bitter, aromatic taste. It is used in medicine as a stimulant.
Zeekoe (n.) A hippopotamus.
Zehner (n.) An Austrian silver coin equal to ten kreutzers, or about five cents.
Zein (n.) A nitrogenous substance of the nature of gluten, obtained from the seeds of Indian corn (Zea) as a soft, yellowish, amorphous substance.
Zemindar (n.) Same as Zamindar.
Zemindary (n.) Alt. of Zemindari
Zemindari (n.) Same as Zamindary.
Zemni (n.) The blind mole rat (Spalax typhlus), native of Eastern Europe and Asia. Its eyes and ears are rudimentary, and its fur is soft and brownish, more or less tinged with gray. It constructs extensive burrows.
Zenana (n.) The part of a dwelling appropriated to women.
Zend (n.) Properly, the translation and exposition in the Huzv/resh, or literary Pehlevi, language, of the Avesta, the Zoroastrian sacred writings; as commonly used, the language (an ancient Persian dialect) in which the Avesta is written.
Zend-Avesta (n.) The sacred writings of the ancient Persian religion, attributed to Zoroaster, but chiefly of a later date.
Zendik (n.) An atheist or unbeliever; -- name given in the East to those charged with disbelief of any revealed religion, or accused of magical heresies.
Zenick (n.) A South African burrowing mammal (Suricata tetradactyla), allied to the civets. It is grayish brown, with yellowish transverse stripes on the back. Called also suricat.
Zenik (n.) See Zenick.
Zenith (n.) That point in the visible celestial hemisphere which is vertical to the spectator; the point of the heavens directly overhead; -- opposed to nadir.
Zenith (n.) hence, figuratively, the point of culmination; the greatest height; the height of success or prosperity.
Zenithal (a.) Of or pertaining to the zenith.
Zeolite (n.) A term now used to designate any one of a family of minerals, hydrous silicates of alumina, with lime, soda, potash, or rarely baryta. Here are included natrolite, stilbite, analcime, chabazite, thomsonite, heulandite, and others. These species occur of secondary origin in the cavities of amygdaloid, basalt, and lava, also, less frequently, in granite and gneiss. So called because many of these species intumesce before the blowpipe.
Zeolitic (a.) Of or pertaining to a zeolite; consisting of, or resembling, a zeolite.
Zeolitiform (a.) Having the form of a zeolite.
Zephyr (n.) The west wind; poetically, any soft, gentle breeze.
Zephyrus (n.) The west wind, or zephyr; -- usually personified, and made the most mild and gentle of all the sylvan deities.
Zequin (n.) See Sequin.
Zerda (n.) The fennec.
Zeriba (n.) Same as Zareba.
Zeros (pl. ) of Zero
Zeroes (pl. ) of Zero
Zero (n.) A cipher; nothing; naught.
Zero (n.) The point from which the graduation of a scale, as of a thermometer, commences.
Zero (n.) Fig.: The lowest point; the point of exhaustion; as, his patience had nearly reached zero.
Zest (n.) A piece of orange or lemon peel, or the aromatic oil which may be squeezed from such peel, used to give flavor to liquor, etc.
Zest (n.) Hence, something that gives or enhances a pleasant taste, or the taste itself; an appetizer; also, keen enjoyment; relish; gusto.
Zest (n.) The woody, thick skin inclosing the kernel of a walnut.
Zested (imp. & p. p.) of Zest
Zesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Zest
Zest (v. t.) To cut into thin slips, as the peel of an orange, lemon, etc.; to squeeze, as peel, over the surface of anything.
Zest (v. t.) To give a relish or flavor to; to heighten the taste or relish of; as, to zest wine.
Zeta (n.) A Greek letter corresponding to our z.
Zetetic (a.) Seeking; proceeding by inquiry.
Zetetic (n.) A seeker; -- a name adopted by some of the Pyrrhonists.
Zetetics (a.) A branch of algebra which relates to the direct search for unknown quantities.
Zeuglodon (n.) A genus of extinct Eocene whales, remains of which have been found in the Gulf States. The species had very long and slender bodies and broad serrated teeth. See Phocodontia.
Zeuglodont () Any species of Zeuglodonta.
Zeuglodonta (n. pl.) Same as Phocodontia.
Zeugma (n.) A figure by which an adjective or verb, which agrees with a nearer word, is, by way of supplement, referred also to another more remote; as, "hic illius arma, hic currus fuit;" where fuit, which agrees directly with currus, is referred also to arma.
Zeugmatic (a.) Of or pertaining to zeugma; characterized by zeugma.
Zeugobranchiata (n. pl.) Same as Zygobranchia.
Zeus (n.) The chief deity of the Greeks, and ruler of the upper world (cf. Hades). He was identified with Jupiter.
Zeuzerian (n.) Any one of a group of bombycid moths of which the genus Zeuzera is the type. Some of these moths are of large size. The goat moth is an example.
Zeylanite (n.) See Ceylanite.
Zibet (n.) Alt. of Zibeth
Zibeth (n.) A carnivorous mammal (Viverra zibetha) closely allied to the civet, from which it differs in having the spots on the body less distinct, the throat whiter, and the black rings on the tail more numerous.
Ziega (n.) Curd produced from milk by adding acetic acid, after rennet has ceased to cause coagulation.
Zietrisikite (n.) A mineral wax, vert similar to ozocerite. It is found at Zietrisika, Moldavia, whence its name.
Zif (n.) The second month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, corresponding to our May.
Zigger (v. i.) Alt. of Zighyr
Zighyr (v. i.) Same as Sicker.
Zigzag (n.) Something that has short turns or angles.
Zigzag (n.) A molding running in a zigzag line; a chevron, or series of chevrons. See Illust. of Chevron, 3.
Zigzag (n.) See Boyau.
Zigzag (a.) Having short, sharp turns; running this way and that in an onward course.
Zigzagged (imp. & p. p.) of Zigzag
Zigzagging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Zigzag
Zigzag (v. t.) To form with short turns.
Zigzag (v. i.) To move in a zigzag manner; also, to have a zigzag shape.
Zigzaggery (n.) The quality or state of being zigzag; crookedness.
Zigzaggy (a.) Having sharp turns.
Zilla (n.) A low, thorny, suffrutescent, crucifeous plant (Zilla myagroides) found in the deserts of Egypt. Its leaves are boiled in water, and eaten, by the Arabs.
Zillah (n.) A district or local division, as of a province.
Zimb (n.) A large, venomous, two-winged fly, native of Abyssinia. It is allied to the tsetse fly, and, like the latter, is destructive to cattle.
Ziment-water (n.) A kind of water found in copper mines; water impregnated with copper.
Zinc (n.) An abundant element of the magnesium-cadmium group, extracted principally from the minerals zinc blende, smithsonite, calamine, and franklinite, as an easily fusible bluish white metal, which is malleable, especially when heated. It is not easily oxidized in moist air, and hence is used for sheeting, coating galvanized iron, etc. It is used in making brass, britannia, and other alloys, and is also largely consumed in electric batteries. Symbol Zn. Atomic weight 64.9.
Zincked (imp. & p. p.) of Zinc
Zinced () of Zinc
Zincking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Zinc
Zincing () of Zinc
Zinc (v. t.) To coat with zinc; to galvanize.
Zincane (n.) Zinc chloride.
Zincic (a.) Pertaining to, containing, or resembling, zinc; zincous.
Zincide (n.) A binary compound of zinc.
Zinciferous (a.) Containing or affording zinc.
Zincification (n.) The act or process of applying zinc; the condition of being zincified, or covered with zinc; galvanization.
Zincify (v. t.) To coat or impregnate with zinc.
Zincite (n.) Native zinc oxide; a brittle, translucent mineral, of an orange-red color; -- called also red zinc ore, and red oxide of zinc.
Zincking (n.) Alt. of Zincing
Zincing (n.) The act or process of applying zinc; galvanization.
Zincky (a.) Pertaining to zinc, or having its appearance.
Zinco- () A combining form from zinc; in chemistry, designating zinc as an element of certain double compounds. Also used adjectively.
Zincode (n.) The positive electrode of an electrolytic cell; anode.
Zincographer (n.) An engraver on zinc.
Zincongraphic (a.) Alt. of Zincongraphical
Zincongraphical (a.) Of or pertaining to zincography; as, zincographic processes.
Zincography (n.) The art or process of engraving or etching on zinc, in which the design is left in relief in the style of a wood cut, the rest of the ground being eaten away by acid.
Zincoid (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, zinc; -- said of the electricity of the zincous plate in connection with a copper plate in a voltaic circle; also, designating the positive pole.
Zinco-polar (a.) Electrically polarized like the surface of the zinc presented to the acid in a battery, which has zincous affinity.
Zincous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or containing, zinc; zincic; as, zincous salts.
Zincous (a.) Hence, formerly, basic, basylous, as opposed to chlorous.
Zincous (a.) Of or pertaining to the positive pole of a galvanic battery; electro-positive.
Zingari (pl. ) of Zingaro
Zingaro (n.) A gypsy.
Zingel (n.) A small, edible, freshwater European perch (Aspro zingel), having a round, elongated body and prominent snout.
Zingiberaceous (a.) Of or pertaining to ginger, or to a tribe (Zingibereae) of endogenous plants of the order Scitamineae. See Scitamineous.
Zink (n.) See Zinc.
Zinkenite (n.) A steel-gray metallic mineral, a sulphide of antimony and lead.
Zinky (a.) See Zincky.
Zinnia (n.) Any plant of the composite genus Zinnia, Mexican herbs with opposite leaves and large gay-colored blossoms. Zinnia elegans is the commonest species in cultivation.
Zinnwaldite (n.) A kind of mica containing lithium, often associated with tin ore.
Zinsang (n.) The delundung.
Zinziberaceous (a.) Same as Zingiberaceous.
Zion (n.) A hill in Jerusalem, which, after the capture of that city by the Israelites, became the royal residence of David and his successors.
Zion (n.) Hence, the theocracy, or church of God.
Zion (n.) The heavenly Jerusalem; heaven.
Ziphioid (n.) See Xiphioid.
Zirco- () A combining form (also used adjectively) designating zirconium as an element of certain double compounds; zircono-; as in zircofluoric acid, sodium zircofluoride.
Zircofluoride (n.) A double fluoride of zirconium and hydrogen, or some other positive element or radical; as, zircofluoride of sodium.
Zircon (n.) A mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals, usually of a brown or gray color. It consists of silica and zirconia. A red variety, used as a gem, is called hyacinth. Colorless, pale-yellow or smoky-brown varieties from Ceylon are called jargon.
Zircona (n.) Zirconia.
Zirconate (n.) A salt of zirconic acid.
Zirconia (n.) The oxide of zirconium, obtained as a white powder, and possessing both acid and basic properties. On account of its infusibility, and brilliant luminosity when incandescent, it is used as an ingredient of sticks for the Drummomd light.
Zirconic (a.) Pertaining to, containing, or resembling, zirconium; as, zirconic oxide; zirconic compounds.
Zirconium (n.) A rare element of the carbon-silicon group, intermediate between the metals and nonmetals, obtained from the mineral zircon as a dark sooty powder, or as a gray metallic crystalline substance. Symbol Zr. Atomic weight, 90.4.
Zircono () See Zirco-.
Zirconoid (n.) A double eight-sided pyramid, a form common with tetragonal crystals; -- so called because this form often occurs in crystals of zircon.
Zither (n.) An instrument of music used in Austria and Germany. It has from thirty to forty wires strung across a shallow sounding-board, which lies horizontally on a table before the performer, who uses both hands in playing on it. [Not to be confounded with the old lute-shaped cittern, or cithern.]
Zittern (n.) See Cittern.
Zizania (n.) A genus of grasses including Indian rice. See Indian rice, under Rice.
Zizel (n.) The suslik.
Zoanthacea (n. pl.) A suborder of Actinaria, including Zoanthus and allied genera, which are permanently attached by their bases.
Zoantharia (n. pl.) Same as Anthozoa.
Zoantharian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Zoantharia.
Zoantharian (n.) One of the Anthozoa.
Zoanthodeme (n.) The zooids of a compound anthozoan, collectively.
Zoanthoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the Zoanthacea.
Zoanthropy (n.) A kind of monomania in which the patient believes himself transformed into one of the lower animals.
Zoanthus (n.) A genus of Actinaria, including numerous species, found mostly in tropical seas. The zooids or polyps resemble small, elongated actinias united together at their bases by fleshy stolons, and thus forming extensive groups. The tentacles are small and bright colored.
Zobo (n.) A kind of domestic cattle reared in Asia for its flesh and milk. It is supposed to be a hybrid between the zebu and the yak.
Zocle (n.) Same as Socle.
Zocco (n.) Alt. of Zoccolo
Zoccolo (n.) Same as Socle.
Zodiac (n.) An imaginary belt in the heavens, 16 or 18 broad, in the middle of which is the ecliptic, or sun's path. It comprises the twelve constellations, which one constituted, and from which were named, the twelve signs of the zodiac.
Zodiac (n.) A figure representing the signs, symbols, and constellations of the zodiac.
Zodiac (n.) A girdle; a belt.
Zodiacal (a.) Of or pertaining to the zodiac; situated within the zodiac; as, the zodiacal planets.
Zoea (n.) A peculiar larval stage of certain decapod Crustacea, especially of crabs and certain Anomura.
Zoetrope (n.) An optical toy, in which figures made to revolve on the inside of a cylinder, and viewed through slits in its circumference, appear like a single figure passing through a series of natural motions as if animated or mechanically moved.
Zohar (n.) A Jewish cabalistic book attributed by tradition to Rabbi Simon ben Yochi, who lived about the end of the 1st century, a. d. Modern critics believe it to be a compilation of the 13th century.
Zoic (a.) Of or pertaining to animals, or animal life.
Zoide (n.) See Meride.
Zoilean (a.) Having the characteristic of Zoilus, a bitter, envious, unjust critic, who lived about 270 years before Christ.
Zoilism (n.) Resemblance to Zoilus in style or manner; carping criticism; detraction.
Zoisite (n.) A grayish or whitish mineral occurring in orthorhombic, prismatic crystals, also in columnar masses. It is a silicate of alumina and lime, and is allied to epidote.
Zokor (n.) An Asiatic burrowing rodent (Siphneus aspalax) resembling the mole rat. It is native of the Altai Mountains.
Zollverein (n.) Literally, a customs union; specifically, applied to the several customs unions successively formed under the leadership of Prussia among certain German states for establishing liberty of commerce among themselves and common tariff on imports, exports, and transit.
Zomboruk (n.) See Zumbooruk.
Zonae (pl. ) of Zona
Zona (n.) A zone or band; a layer.
Zonal (a.) Of or pertaining to a zone; having the form of a zone or zones.
Zonar (n.) A belt or girdle which the Christians and Jews of the Levant were obliged to wear to distinguish them from Mohammedans.
Zonaria (n. pl.) A division of Mammalia in which the placenta is zonelike.
Zonate (a.) Divided by parallel planes; as, zonate tetraspores, found in certain red algae.
Zone (n.) A girdle; a cincture.
Zone (n.) One of the five great divisions of the earth, with respect to latitude and temperature.
Zone (n.) The portion of the surface of a sphere included between two parallel planes; the portion of a surface of revolution included between two planes perpendicular to the axis.
Zone (n.) A band or stripe extending around a body.
Zone (n.) A band or area of growth encircling anything; as, a zone of evergreens on a mountain; the zone of animal or vegetable life in the ocean around an island or a continent; the Alpine zone, that part of mountains which is above the limit of tree growth.
Zone (n.) A series of planes having mutually parallel intersections.
Zone (n.) Circuit; circumference.
Zone (v. t.) To girdle; to encircle.
Zoned (a.) Wearing a zone, or girdle.
Zoned (a.) Having zones, or concentric bands; striped.
Zoned (a.) Zonate.
Zoneless (a.) Not having a zone; ungirded.
Zonnar (n.) See Zonar.
Zonular (a.) Of or pertaining to a zone; zone-shaped.
Zonule (n.) A little zone, or girdle.
Zonulet (n.) A zonule.
Zonure (n.) Any one of several of South African lizards of the genus Zonura, common in rocky situations.
Zoo- () A combining form from Gr. zwo^,n an animal, as in zoogenic, zoology, etc.
Zoochemical (a.) Pertaining to zoochemistry.
Zoochemistry (n.) Animal chemistry; particularly, the description of the chemical compounds entering into the composition of the animal body, in distinction from biochemistry.
Zoochemy (n.) Animal chemistry; zoochemistry.
Zoochlorella (n.) One of the small green granulelike bodies found in the interior of certain stentors, hydras, and other invertebrates.
Zoocyst (n.) A cyst formed by certain Protozoa and unicellular plants which the contents divide into a large number of granules, each of which becomes a germ.
Zoocytia (pl. ) of Zoocytium
Zoocytium (n.) The common support, often branched, of certain species of social Infusoria.
Zoodendria (pl. ) of Zoodendrium
Zoodendrium (n.) The branched, and often treelike, support of the colonies of certain Infusoria.
Zooecia (pl. ) of Zooecium
Zooecium (n.) One of the cells or tubes which inclose the feeling zooids of Bryozoa. See Illust. of Sea Moss.
Zooerythrine (n.) A peculiar organic red coloring matter found in the feathers of various birds.
Zoogamous (a.) Of or pertaining zoogamy.
Zoogamy (n.) The sexual reproduction of animals.
Zoogenic (a.) Of or pertaining to zoogeny, animal production.
Zoogeny (n.) Alt. of Zoogony
Zoogony (n.) The doctrine of the formation of living beings.
Zoogeography (n.) The study or description of the geographical distribution of animals.
Zoogeographical (a.) Of or pertaining to zoography.
Zoogloea (n.) A colony or mass of bacteria imbedded in a viscous gelatinous substance. The zoogloea is characteristic of a transitory stage through which rapidly multiplying bacteria pass in the course of their evolution. Also used adjectively.
Zoographer (n.) One who describes animals, their forms and habits.
Zoographic (a.) Alt. of Zoographical
Zoographical (a.) Of or pertaining to the description of animals.
Zoographist (n.) A zoographer.
Zoography (n.) A description of animals, their forms and habits.
Zooid (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, an animal.
Zooid (n.) An organic body or cell having locomotion, as a spermatic cell or spermatozooid.
Zooid (n.) An animal in one of its inferior stages of development, as one of the intermediate forms in alternate generation.
Zooid (n.) One of the individual animals in a composite group, as of Anthozoa, Hydroidea, and Bryozoa; -- sometimes restricted to those individuals in which the mouth and digestive organs are not developed.
Zooidal (a.) Of or pertaining to a zooid; as, a zooidal form.
Zoolatry (n.) The worship of animals.
Zoologer (n.) A zoologist.
Zoological (a.) Of or pertaining to zoology, or the science of animals.
Zoologically (adv.) In a zoological manner; according to the principles of zoology.
Zoologist (n.) One who is well versed in zoology.
Zoologies (pl. ) of Zoology
Zoology (n.) That part of biology which relates to the animal kingdom, including the structure, embryology, evolution, classification, habits, and distribution of all animals, both living and extinct.
Zoology (n.) A treatise on this science.
Zoomelanin (n.) A pigment giving the black color to the feathers of many birds.
Zoomorphic (a.) Of or pertaining to zoomorphism.
Zoomorphism (n.) The transformation of men into beasts.
Zoomorphism (n.) The quality of representing or using animal forms; as, zoomorphism in ornament.
Zoomorphism (n.) The representation of God, or of gods, in the form, or with the attributes, of the lower animals.
Zoa (pl. ) of Zoon
Zoon (n.) An animal which is the sole product of a single egg; -- opposed to zooid.
Zoon (n.) Any one of the perfectly developed individuals of a compound animal.
Zoonic (a.) Of or pertaining to animals; obtained from animal substances.
Zoonite (n.) One of the segments of the body of an articulate animal.
Zoonite (n.) One of the theoretic transverse divisions of any segmented animal.
Zoonomy (n.) The laws of animal life, or the science which treats of the phenomena of animal life, their causes and relations.
Zoonule (n.) Same as Zoonite.
Zoopathology (n.) Animal pathology.
Zoophaga (n. pl.) An artificial group comprising various carnivorous and insectivorous animals.
Zoophagan (n.) A animal that feeds on animal food.
Zoophagous (a.) Feeding on animals.
Zoophilist (n.) A lover of animals.
Zoophily (n.) Love of animals.
Zoophite (n.) A zoophyte.
Zoophoric (a.) Bearing or supporting the figure of an animal; as, a zoophoric column.
Zoophorous (n.) The part between the architrave and cornice; the frieze; -- so called from the figures of animals carved upon it.
Zoophyta (n. pl.) An extensive artificial and heterogeneous group of animals, formerly adopted by many zoologists. It included the c/lenterates, echinoderms, sponges, Bryozoa, Protozoa, etc.
Zoophyte (v. i.) Any one of numerous species of invertebrate animals which more or less resemble plants in appearance, or mode of growth, as the corals, gorgonians, sea anemones, hydroids, bryozoans, sponges, etc., especially any of those that form compound colonies having a branched or treelike form, as many corals and hydroids.
Zoophyte (v. i.) Any one of the Zoophyta.
Zoophytic (a.) Alt. of Zoophytical
Zoophytical (a.) Of or pertaining to zoophytes.
Zoophytoid (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, a zoophyte.
Zoophytological (a.) Of or pertaining to zoophytology; as, zoophytological observations.
Zoophytology (n.) The natural history zoophytes.
Zoopraxiscope (n.) An instrument similar to, or the same as, the, the phenakistoscope, by means of which pictures projected upon a screen are made to exhibit the natural movements of animals, and the like.
Zoopsychology (n.) Animal psychology.
Zoosperm (n.) One of the spermatic particles; spermatozoid.
-sporangia (pl. ) of Zoosporangium
Zoosporangium (n.) A spore, or conceptacle containing zoospores.
Zoospore (n.) A spore provided with one or more slender cilia, by the vibration of which it swims in the water. Zoospores are produced by many green, and by some olive-brown, algae. In certain species they are divided into the larger macrozoospores and the smaller microzoospores. Called also sporozoid, and swarmspore.
Zoospore (n.) See Swarmspore.
Zoosporic (a.) Of or pertaining to zoospores; of the nature of zoospores.
Zootic (a.) Containing the remains of organized bodies; -- said of rock or soil.
Zootomical (a.) Of or pertaining to zootomy.
Zootomist (n.) One who dissects animals, or is skilled in zootomy.
Zootomy (n.) The dissection or the anatomy of animals; -- distinguished from androtomy.
Zootrophic (a.) Of or pertaining to the nourishment of animals.
Zoozoo (n.) The wood pigeon.
Zope (n.) A European fresh-water bream (Abramis ballerus).
Zopilote (n.) The urubu, or American black vulture.
Zoril (n.) Same as Zorilla.
Zorilla (n.) Either one of two species of small African carnivores of the genus Ictonyx allied to the weasels and skunks.
Zoroastrian (a.) Of or pertaining to Zoroaster, or his religious system.
Zoroastrian (n.) A follower of Zoroaster; one who accepts Zoroastrianism.
Zoroastrianism (n.) The religious system of Zoroaster, the legislator and prophet of the ancient Persians, which was the national faith of Persia; mazdeism. The system presupposes a good spirit (Ormuzd) and an opposing evil spirit (Ahriman). Cf. Fire worship, under Fire, and Parsee.
Zoroastrism (n.) Same as Zoroastrianism.
Zoster (n.) Shingles.
Zostera (n.) A genus of plants of the Naiadaceae, or Pondweed family. Zostera marina is commonly known as sea wrack, and eelgrass.
Zosterops (n.) A genus of birds that comprises the white-eyes. See White-eye.
Zouave (n.) One of an active and hardy body of soldiers in the French service, originally Arabs, but now composed of Frenchmen who wear the Arab dress.
Zouave (n.) Hence, one of a body of soldiers who adopt the dress and drill of the Zouaves, as was done by a number of volunteer regiments in the army of the United States in the Civil War, 1861-65.
Zounds (interj.) An exclamation formerly used as an oath, and an expression of anger or wonder.
Zoutch (v. t.) To stew, as flounders, eels, etc., with just enough or liquid to cover them.
Zubr (n.) The aurochs.
Zuche (n.) A stump of a tree.
Zuchetto (n.) A skullcap covering the tonsure, worn under the berretta. The pope's is white; a cardinal's red; a bishop's purple; a priest's black.
Zufolo (n.) A little flute or flageolet, especially that which is used to teach birds.
Zuisin (n.) The American widgeon.
Zulus (n. pl.) The most important tribe belonging to the Kaffir race. They inhabit a region on the southeast coast of Africa, but formerly occupied a much more extensive country. They are noted for their warlike disposition, courage, and military skill.
Zumbooruk (n.) A small cannon supported by a swiveled rest on the back of a camel, whence it is fired, -- used in the East.
Zumic (n.) Alt. of Zumometer
Zumological (n.) Alt. of Zumometer
Zumology (n.) Alt. of Zumometer
Zumometer (n.) See Zymic, Zymological, etc.
Zu/is (n. pl.) A tribe of Pueblo Indians occupying a village in New Mexico, on the Zu/i River.
Zunyite (n.) A fluosilicate of alumina occurring in tetrahedral crystals at the Zu/i mine in Colorado.
Zwanziger (n.) An Austrian silver coin equivalent to 20 kreutzers, or about 10 cents.
Zygantra (pl. ) of Zygantrum
Zygantrum (n.) See under Zygosphene.
Zygapophyses (pl. ) of Zygapophysis
Zygapophysis (n.) One of the articular processes of a vertebra, of which there are usually four, two anterior and two posterior. See under Vertebra.
Zygenid (n.) Any one of numerous species of moths of the family Zygaenidae, most of which are bright colored. The wood nymph and the vine forester are examples. Also used adjectively.
Zygobranchia (n. pl.) A division of marine gastropods in which the gills are developed on both sides of the body and the renal organs are also paired. The abalone (Haliotis) and the keyhole limpet (Fissurella) are examples.
Zygobranchiate (a.) Of or pertaining to the Zygobranchia.
Zygodactyl (n.) Alt. of Zygodactyle
Zygodactyle (n.) Any zygodactylous bird.
Zygodactylae (n. pl.) The zygodactylous birds. In a restricted sense applied to a division of birds which includes the barbets, toucans, honey guides, and other related birds.
Zygodactyli (n. pl.) Same as Scansores.
Zygodactylic (a.) Alt. of Zygodactylous
Zygodactylous (a.) Yoke-footed; having the toes disposed in pairs; -- applied to birds which have two toes before and two behind, as the parrot, cuckoo, woodpecker, etc.
Zygoma (n.) The jugal, malar, or cheek bone.
Zygoma (n.) The zygomatic process of the temporal bone.
Zygoma (n.) The whole zygomatic arch.
Zygomatic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the zygoma.
Zygomorphic (a.) Alt. of Zygomorphous
Zygomorphous (a.) Symmetrical bilaterally; -- said of organisms, or parts of organisms, capable of division into two symmetrical halves only in a single plane.
Zyophyte (n.) Any plant of a proposed class or grand division (Zygophytes, Zygophyta, or Zygosporeae), in which reproduction consists in the union of two similar cells. Cf. Oophyte.
Zygosis (n.) Same as Conjugation.
Zygosperm (n.) A spore formed by the union of the contents of two similar cells, either of the same or of distinct individual plants. Zygosperms are found in certain orders of algae and fungi.
Zygosphene (n.) A median process on the front part of the neural arch of the vertebrae of most snakes and some lizards, which fits into a fossa, called the zygantrum, on the back part of the arch in front.
Zygospore (n.) Same as Zygosperm.
Zygospore (n.) A spore formed by the union of several zoospores; -- called also zygozoospore.
Zylonite (n.) Celluloid.
Zymase (n.) A soluble ferment, or enzyme. See Enzyme.
Zyme (n.) A ferment.
Zyme (n.) The morbific principle of a zymotic disease.
Zymic (a.) Pertaining to, or produced by, fermentation; -- formerly, by confusion, used to designate lactic acid.
Zymogen (n.) A mother substance, or antecedent, of an enzyme or chemical ferment; -- applied to such substances as, not being themselves actual ferments, may by internal changes give rise to a ferment.
Zymogene (n.) One of a physiological group of globular bacteria which produces fermentations of diverse nature; -- distinguished from pathogene.
Zymogenic (a.) Pertaining to, or formed by, a zymogene.
Zymogenic (a.) Capable of producing a definite zymogen or ferment.
Zymologic (a.) Alt. of Zymological
Zymological (a.) Of or pertaining to zymology.
Zymologist (n.) One who is skilled in zymology, or in the fermentation of liquors.
Zymology (n.) A treatise on the fermentation of liquors, or the doctrine of fermentation.
Zymome (n.) A glutinous substance, insoluble in alcohol, resembling legumin; -- now called vegetable fibrin, vegetable albumin, or gluten casein.
Zymometer (n.) Alt. of Zymosimeter
Zymosimeter (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the degree of fermentation occasioned by the mixture of different liquids, and the degree of heat which they acquire in fermentation.
Zymophyte (n.) A bacteroid ferment.
Zymose (n.) Invertin.
Zymosis (n.) A fermentation; hence, an analogous process by which an infectious disease is believed to be developed.
Zymosis (n.) A zymotic disease.
Zymotic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or caused by, fermentation.
Zymotic (a.) Designating, or pertaining to, a certain class of diseases. See Zymotic disease, below.
Zythem (n.) See Zythum.
Zythepsary (n.) A brewery.
Zythum (n.) A kind of ancient malt beverage; a liquor made from malt and wheat.
